https://www.cdc.gov/flu/avianflu/avian-flu-summary.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/flu/avianflu/avian-flu-summary.htm    
                Description: Avian Influenza Current Situation - CDC    
                Keywords: avian influenza,  bird flu,  type A viruses,  wild aquatic birds,  domestic poultry,  avian flu viruses,  h5n1 virus,  surveillance,  outbreaks,  interim guidance,  HPAI, Influenza (Flu)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Influenza (Flu)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Avian Influenza Current Situation Summary

EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

### Situation by Type and Location

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protective Actions You Can Take
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Wild Birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Poultry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Humans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * News

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC considers the risk to the U.S. public's health from HPAI H5 or H7 virus outbreaks in wild birds or poultry in the United States to be low, but has developed the following interim guidance: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * antiviral chemoprophylaxis of exposed persons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * In addition, CDC recommends the following protective actions:

**_Protective actions around birds_**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * As a general precaution, people should avoid wild birds and observe them only from a distance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avoid contact with domestic birds (poultry) that appear ill or have died
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avoid contact with surfaces that appear to be contaminated with feces from wild or domestic birds

**What to do if you find a dead bird**  
State and local agencies have different policies for collecting and testing
birds, so check with your state health department, state veterinary diagnostic
laboratory, or state wildlife agency for information about reporting dead
birds in your area. Wildlife agencies routinely investigate sick or dead bird
events if large numbers are impacted. This type of reporting could help with
the early detection of illnesses like West Nile virus or avian influenza. If
local authorities tell you to simply dispose of the bird's carcass (body),
don't handle it with your bare hands. Use gloves or an inverted plastic bag to
place the carcass in a garbage bag, which can then be disposed of in your
regular trash.

To report unusual signs in birds you have seen in the wild, call 1-866-4-USDA-
WS (1-866-4-8732-97).

**_Preparing food_**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The U.S. poultry industry maintains rigorous health and safety standards, including routine monitoring for avian influenza.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * It is safe to eat properly handled and cooked poultry in the United States.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * However, consumers are reminded to handle raw poultry hygienically and cook all poultry and poultry products (including eggs) thoroughly before eating.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Raw poultry can be associated with many infections, including salmonella.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * While there is no evidence that any human cases of avian influenza have ever been acquired by eating properly cooked poultry products, uncooked poultry and poultry products (like blood) have been linked to human infections with organisms other than influenza. Proper cooking kills influenza viruses. Visit the USDA food safety website at USDA - Food Safety Educationexternal icon for instructions on handling poultry safely.

**_Traveling to other countries_**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Currently, CDC does not recommend any travel restrictions to any of the countries affected by avian influenza viruses in poultry or people.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC does recommend that travelers to countries with avian influenza A outbreaks in poultry or people observe the following: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Avoid visiting poultry farms, bird markets and other places where live poultry are raised, kept, or sold.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Avoid preparing or eating raw or undercooked poultry products.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Practice hygiene and cleanliness.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Visit a doctor if you become sick during or after travel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Travelers' Health for more information on avian influenza.

**_If you 've had direct contact with infected birds_**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * People who have had direct contact with infected bird(s) should be watched if they become ill. They may be given influenza antiviral drugs to prevent illness.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * While antiviral drugs are most often used to treat flu, they also can be used to prevent infection in someone who has been exposed to influenza viruses. When used to prevent seasonal influenza, antiviral drugs are 70% to 90% effective.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Close contacts (family members, etc.) of people who have been exposed to avian influenza viruses are being asked to monitor their health and report any flu-like symptoms.

**_If you 're a clinician, laboratorian or public health worker_**

Avian Influenza: Information for Health Professionals and Laboratorians for
the latest guidance.

**Background**

Avian influenza refers to disease caused by infection with avian (bird)
influenza (flu) Type A viruses. Avian influenza A viruses can infect the
respiratory and gastrointestinal tract of birds and have been isolated from
more than 100 different species of wild birds around the world. Aquatic birds
including gulls, terns, and shorebirds, and waterfowl such as ducks, geese and
swans are considered reservoirs (hosts) for avian influenza A viruses. Some
avian influenza A viruses can infect domestic poultry, and outbreaks of avian
influenza in domestic poultry occur worldwide.  For more information: World
Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) Avian Influenza Portalexternal icon and
the World Animal Health Information Databaseexternal icon. Some avian
influenza A viruses have infected other animal species, and sporadic human
infections with some avian influenza A viruses have occurred.

**Classification of Avian Influenza A Viruses**

Avian influenza A viruses are classified into two categories: low pathogenic
avian influenza (LPAI) and highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) based on
their molecular characteristics and their ability to cause disease and
mortality in chickens in a laboratory setting. For more information: OIE
Terrestrial Animal Health Code, Infection with Avian Influenza Virusesexternal
icon.

Both HPAI and LPAI viruses can spread rapidly in wild birds and poultry. Most
avian influenza A viruses circulating among wild birds and poultry are
classified as LPAI A viruses and typically cause asymptomatic infection to
mild illness.  HPAI viruses can cause severe disease and high mortality in
infected wild birds and poultry. Whether a virus is classified as a LPAI or
HPAI virus applies to the ability to cause disease in infected poultry, and
does not refer to whether it causes disease in humans. Both LPAI and HPAI
virus infections of humans have resulted in a wide spectrum of illness, from
mild to severe and fatal.



**Examples of Avian Influenza A Virus Infections in Wild Birds in the U.S.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The U.S. Department of Interior (DOI) and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) are the lead federal agencies for outbreak investigation and control in wild birds and the USDA is the lead agency for such activities in domestic birds. CDC coordinates with DOI, USDA and with state health departments on appropriate public health measures and works with animal health colleagues to minimize the public health risk posed by avian influenza A viruses.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * In December 2014 and January 2015, the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) reported the presence of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) H5N2 and HPAI H5N8 viruses in wild birds pdf icon[156 KB, 3 pages]external icon in a few states. The initial findings were a result of increased outreach, reporting and surveillance activities following the detection of HPAI H5N2 among commercial flocks in Canadaexternal icon reported in early December 2014. Two of these viruses were then detected commercial poultry in the United States.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * In January 2015, an HPAI* H5N1 virus was detected in a wild duck in the United States. The H5N1 virus isolated from a U.S. wild bird was a new mixed virus (a reassortant) that was genetically different from the Asian avian H5N1 viruses that have caused human infections associated with high mortality in several other countries (notably in Asia and Egypt).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC considers the risk to people from these HPAI infections in wild birds to be low, but has developed interim guidance on testing and chemoprophylaxis. For more information, see the "Protective Actions You Can Take" tab at the top of this page.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No human infections with these viruses have been detected at this time. However, similar viruses have infected people in the past. It's possible that human infections with these viruses may occur.

**_Global Situation:_**

**Background:** Outbreaks of avian influenza among poultry occur periodically
worldwide. For more information: World Organization for Animal Health (OIE's)
World Animal Health Information Database (WAHID)external icon, OIE's WAHID
Handistatus IIexternal icon, the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA's)
Avian Influenza Outbreaks in the United States Q&A pdf icon[160 KB, 3
pages]external icon, and CDC's Outbreaks of Avian Influenza in North America.
CDC coordinates with, the World Health Organization and other international
partners to minimize the public health risk posed by avian influenza A
viruses.

**_Examples of Poultry Outbreaks of Avian Influenza Worldwide:_**

**_H5 viruses (HPAI):_**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Since December 2003, Asian-lineage highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A(H5N1) viruses have caused high mortality in infected poultry and wild birds in Asia, the Middle East, Europe and Africa. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Millions of poultry have been culled to control the spread of HPAI H5N1 viruses.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * As of 2011, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization considered six countries to be endemic for HPAI H5N1 virus in poultry: Bangladesh, China, Egypt, India, Indonesia, and Vietnam. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outbreaks of HPAI H5N1 virus have also occurred among poultry in non-endemic countries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Outbreaks of HPAI H5N1 virus among poultry continue to occur in some countries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Since 2012, an increasing number of countries have reported detection of HPAI viruses of additional H5 subtypes different from H5N1, such as H5N2, H5N3, H5N5, H5N6, H5N8external icon and H5N9, among wild birds and/or domestic poultry.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Beginning in January 2015 to June 2015, HPAI (H5) virus outbreaks (including H5N2 and H5N8 viruses) were reported in commercial poultry flocks in 21 U.S. states and Canada. More information is available at CDC's H5 Viruses in the United States page and from the USDA Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service's (APHIS's) HPAI 2014/15 Confirmed Detectionsexternal icon page.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * During 2016 and early 2017, there were outbreaks of HPAI H5N8 virus in domestic poultry and wild birds in Europe, Asia and parts of Africa.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * With the exception of HPAI H5N1 and HPAI H5N6 viruses, none of these other HPAI H5 viruses are known to have caused illness in people to date.

**_H7 viruses (HPAI and LPAI):_**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * There have been outbreaks of HPAI H7 viruses identified in poultry in various countries, including Mexico, the Netherlands, Chile and Canada. Sporadic cases of human infection with these viruses have been identified.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Since 2013, Asian lineage LPAI A(H7N9) viruses in China have been detected in poultry or live poultry markets in eastern, southern and northern China. LPAI H7N9 virus infection does not generally cause observable illness in poultry.  Note: These viruses have caused severe illness and death in people.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Asian Lineage LPAI H7N9 viruses have been circulating among poultry without causing signs of illness in infected birds in China since 2013. These viruses also have caused human infections. In early 2017, Asian Lineage HPAI A(H7N9) virus infection of humans was reported in southern China, suggesting that some Asian Lineage LPAI H7N9 virus strains have evolved to become HPAI H7N9 viruses. These Asian Lineage HPAI H7N9 viruses could cause illness and death in infected poultry, and can cause severe illness and fatal outcomes in infected humans.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * To date, Asian lineage LPAI and HPAI H7N9 viruses reported in China have not been detected in poultry, wild birds, or humans in the United States.

**_Examples of Poultry Outbreaks of Avian Influenza in the United States_**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Both HPAI and LPAI outbreaks occur among poultry from time to time in the United States. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA)external icon is the lead federal agency for outbreak investigation and control in domestic birds.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC coordinates with USDA and state health departments on appropriate public health measures and works with animal health colleagues to minimize public health risk posed by avian influenza A viruses.

**_H5 viruses (HPAI):_**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Between 1997 and 2014, based on the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE)external icon reporting criteria for avian influenza in commercial poultry, the United States experienced one outbreak of HPAI H5N2 virus in Texas in 2004 that was restricted to one poultry farm. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * The February 2004 Texas outbreak of HPAI H5N2 virus was reported in a flock of 7,000 chickens in south-central Texas. At that time, this was the first outbreak of HPAI in the United States in 20 years.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Beginning in January 2015 to June 2015, HPAI (H5) virus outbreaks (including H5N2 and H5N8 viruses) were reported in commercial poultry flocks in 21 U.S. states and Canada. More information is available at CDC's H5 Viruses in the United States page and from the USDA Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service's (APHIS's) HPAI 2014/15 Confirmed Detectionsexternal icon page.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Note: _no_ human infections with any HPAI H5 viruses, including HPAI H5N2 or H5N8 virus, have been identified to date.

**_H7 viruses (HPAI and LPAI):_**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * In January 2016, an outbreak of North American lineage HPAI H7N8 virus was detected in a commercial poultry flock in Dubois County, Indiana, and subsequently North American lineage LPAI H7N8 was detected in eight nearby turkey flocks. Additional information is available from the USDA APHIS Confirmed Avian Influenza Detections -2016external icon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * In March 2017, an outbreak of HPAI H7N9 virus of North American wild bird origin was detected in two commercial chicken breeder flocks in Tennessee. Note:  this North American lineage HPAI H7N9 virus is genetically unrelated to the Asian lineage HPAI H7N9 viruses reported in China, and is not believed to post the same risk to public health.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _No_ human infections with HPAI H7N8 or H7N9 viruses have been identified in the United States to date.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Department of Agriculture (USDAexternal icon) is the lead federal agency for outbreak and investigation control in domestic birds in the United States. For more information: USDA ARSexternal icon and APHISexternal icon web sites.

**Avian Influenza A Virus Infection of Humans**

Avian influenza A viruses do not normally infect people, but sporadic
infections in people have occurred with some avian influenza A viruses.
Illnesses in humans from avian influenza A virus infections have ranged in
severity from asymptomatic to mild to severe and fatal disease. Human
infections with avian influenza A viruses have most often occurred after
contact with infected birds or their secretions or excretions. Three subtypes
of avian influenza A viruses are known to infect people (H5, H7 and H9
viruses). Among these, Asian lineage H5N1 and H7N9 have caused the majority of
infections in people.

**_Examples of Human Infections with Avian Influenza A viruses_**

**_H5 viruses:_**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Asian lineage highly pathogenic avian influenza A (H5N1) viruses (or "Asian HPAI H5N1") 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sporadic Asian HPAI H5N1 virus infections in people have been reported in 16 countries, often resulting in severe pneumonia with approximately 50% mortality worldwide.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * On January 8, 2014, the first human infection with an Asian HPAI H5N1 virus in the Americas was reported in Canada in a traveler returning from China. Avian influenza A (H5N1) infection with respiratory failure and meningoencephalitis in a Canadian traveller pdf icon[902 KB, 3 pages]external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * There have been no human infections with Asian HPAI H5N1 virus reported in the United States.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * For more information: CDC's Asian Lineage Avian Influenza A (H5N1) virus page.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sporadic human infections with HPAI H5N6 virus resulting in high mortality have been reported in China.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * An HPAI  A (H5N1) virus identified in a U.S. wild bird sampled in 2014 is a new mixed virus (a reassortant) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * This virus is genetically different from the Asian HPAI H5N1 viruses. National Wildlife Health Center Wildlife Health Bulletin 2015-01 pdf icon[141 KB, 2 pages]external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * No human infections with this new reassortant HPAI H5N1 virus have been reported.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC has developed recommendations to help people protect themselves from getting infected as well as interim guidance on testing and chemoprophylaxis.

**_H7 viruses:_**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * H7 virus infection in humans is uncommon, but has been documented, mostly among people who had direct contact with infected birds, especially during outbreaks of H7 virus among poultry.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sporadic human infections with avian influenza A (H7) viruses (low pathogenic avian influenza "LPAI" H7N2, H7N3, H7N7, H7N9) and (HPAI H7N3, H7N7, H7N9) have been identified in a number of countries, including the United States, Canada, Mexico, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Taiwan, Malaysia, and China.  Both LPAI and HPAI H7 virus infections have resulted in a wide spectrum of illness in infected persons, ranging from asymptomatic to mild illness (e.g., conjunctivitis, upper respiratory tract illness) to severe pneumonia, multi-organ failure, with fatal outcome.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Asian Lineage low pathogenic avian influenza A (H7N9) viruses_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * On April 1, 2013, the first known human infections were reported in China.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Since 2013, these viruses in China have been associated with severe respiratory illness and death in about 40% of reported infections in patients. For more information: CDC's Asian Lineage Avian Influenza A (H7N9) virus page
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * In January 2015, the first two human infections with Asian Lineage LPAI avian influenza A (H7N9) virus in North America were reported in a husband and wife who became ill after a trip to China. For more information: case report 1external icon and case report 2external icon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _North American lineage low pathogenic avian influenza A (H7N2) virus_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * In December 2016, one human infection with a North American lineage LPAI A(H7N2) virus was reported in New York City. This person experienced mild upper respiratory tract illness following close, prolonged unprotected exposure to the respiratory secretions of infected, sick cats at an animal shelter experiencing an outbreak of LPAI H7N2 in cats. For more information: Avian Influenza A(H7N2) in Cats in Animal Shelters in NY; One Human Infection  and CDC's Influenza in Cats page.

**_H9 viruses:_**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rare, sporadic LPAI H9N2 virus infections of humans have been reported in several countries (China, Bangladesh, Egypt), most commonly in children. LPAI H9N2 virus infection generally causes mild upper respiratory tract illness, but pneumonia was reported in an immunosuppressed adult and one fatal outcome was reported in China.

Flu News & Spotlights

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avian Influenza in Cats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Outbreak of North American Avian Influenza A(H7N9) in Poultry Poses Low Risk to People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Asian Lineage Avian Influenza A (H7N9)

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: March 17, 2015

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)

home Avian Flu

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bird Flu Basics expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Avian Influenza Type A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bird Flu in Birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bird Flu in People expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Spread of Bird Flu Viruses Between Animals and People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Examples of Human Infections with Avian Influenza A Viruses with Possible Limited, Non-Sustained Human-to-Human Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevention and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Information for Specific Groups expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Information for People Exposed to Birds Infected with Avian Influenza Viruses of Public Health Concern
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Recommendations for Worker Protection and Use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Self-Observation Instructions for Demobilizing Bird Flu Responders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Current Situation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specific Avian Flu Viruses expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Avian Influenza Type A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Asian Avian Influenza A (H5N1) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H5N1 in Birds and Other Animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H5N1 in People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Public Health Threat of Highly Pathogenic Asian Avian Influenza A (H5N1) Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H5N1 Genetic Changes Inventory expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Inventory Preamble
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Inventory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Questions & Answers: H5N1 Genetic Change Inventory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HPAI A H5 Virus Background and Clinical Illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Asian Lineage Avian Influenza A (H7N9) Virus expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * H7N9 Images
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pandemic Response Planning Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * North American Lineage AI Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Outbreaks expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * H5 Viruses in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * U.S. H5 outbreaks in 2014-2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * U.S. H7N8 in 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * U.S. H7N2 in cats in 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Care & Laboratorian Guidance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Case Definitions expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * U.S. H5 Virus Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Asian H5N1 Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Asian H7N9 Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Testing, Reporting & Lab Information expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specimen Collection and Testing for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses with Potential to Cause Severe Disease in Humans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specimen Collection and Testing for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease in Humans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diagnostics for Detecting H7N9 Using rRT-PCR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC and USDA: Interim Risk Assessment and Biosafety Level Recommendations for Working with Influenza A (H7N9) Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Infection Control Within Healthcare Settings for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Treatment and Prophylaxis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * For Clinicians: Evaluating and Managing Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Use of Antiviral Medications for Treatment of Human Infections with Novel Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Antiviral Chemoprophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds with Avian Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Follow-up of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses and Use of Antiviral Chemoprophylaxis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What CDC Does expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Risk Assessment & Research expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Researching the Virus 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Dual Use Research of Concern
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Preparedness and Response expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Making a Candidate Vaccine Virus 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avian Influenza Related Links
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * News & Spotlights

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![1918 Pandemic flu commemoration website.](/flu/images/pandemic-1918-flu.jpg)



Influenza Types

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Seasonal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Swine/Variant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Influenza in Animals

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

