https://www.cdc.gov/flu/avianflu/novel-av-treatment-guidance.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/flu/avianflu/novel-av-treatment-guidance.htm    
                Description: Provides guidance for antiviral treatment of human infection with novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease; these viruses currently include H7N9 and HPAI H5N1. - CDC    
                Keywords: H7N9, HPAI H5N1, severe human disease, novel influenza A virus, oseltamivir, peramivir, zanamivir, hospitalized patients, outpatient, antiviral treatment, confirmed case, probable case, exposure, guidance, antiviral, antiviral medications, H7N9, Asian-origin H5N1    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Influenza (Flu)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Interim Guidance on the Use of Antiviral Medications for Treatment of Human
Infections with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Human Disease

EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

This guidance pertains to avian influenza A (H7N9), Asian H5N1, and the newly
detected avian influenza H5 viruses in the United States (H5N2, H5N8, and the
new reassortant H5N1 virus).

### Summary

This document provides guidance for antiviral treatment of human infection
with novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease; these
viruses currently include influenza A (H7N9) virus and highly pathogenic avian
influenza A (H5N1) virus.1

This guidance merges and replaces the previously posted guidance on the use of
antiviral agents for treatment of human infections with avian influenza A
(H7N9) and avian influenza A (H5N1). This antiviral treatment guidance is
consistent with current CDC and World Health Organization (WHO)
recommendations, and provides updated recommendations for treatment of novel
influenza A infections associated with severe human disease in the United
States.

This guidance reflects recently updated novel influenza A case definitions
(see H7N9 case definitions and H5N1 case definitions). **This guidance
recommends antiviral treatment as soon as possible for all hospitalized cases
of human infection with novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human
disease, and for confirmed and probable outpatient cases.** 2 **Outpatient
cases under investigation who have had recent close contact with a confirmed
or probable case of human infection with a novel influenza A virus that can
cause severe disease should receive antiviral treatment, whereas outpatient
cases under investigation meeting only the travel exposure criteria for a case
under investigation are not recommended to receive antiviral treatment**. (For
guidance on investigation of close contacts of confirmed or probable cases,
see Interim Guidance on Follow-up of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with
Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Human Disease and the Use of
Antiviral Medications for Chemoprophylaxis.)

These recommendations are based on expert opinion and available published and
unpublished data on the treatment of infection caused by influenza viruses,
including seasonal, pandemic, and novel viruses. This guidance will continue
to be updated as additional information on virus transmissibility,
epidemiology, and antiviral susceptibility patterns becomes available for
novel influenza A viruses that cause severe disease.

### Background

Randomized controlled trials have demonstrated decreased time to symptom
improvement when currently approved neuraminidase inhibitor antiviral agents
(oseltamivir, peramivir and zanamivir) are used to treat otherwise healthy
persons with acute uncomplicated influenza caused by seasonal influenza
viruses within the first few days of illness [1-11]. Secondary analyses in
some of these trials and additional meta-analyses of data from randomized
controlled trials have shown that neuraminidase inhibitors reduce secondary
complications associated with influenza [4, 8, 9, 12-14].

Clinical benefit is greatest when antiviral treatment is administered early,
especially within 48 hours of influenza illness onset. Among patients
hospitalized with seasonal influenza A or B, pandemic 2009 influenza A (H1N1),
or avian influenza A (H5N1) virus infections, observational studies suggest
that early treatment reduces disease severity and mortality [15-19]. Although
earlier antiviral treatment results in greater clinical benefit, observational
studies support the use of antiviral treatment in hospitalized patients even
when started after 48 hours of illness, including in critically ill patients
[15, 17-22]. Among patients with uncomplicated seasonal influenza, one
randomized clinical trial in children demonstrated a modest reduction in
duration of symptoms and virus shedding in patients initiated 72 hours after
illness [10]. Neuraminidase inhibitor treatment with oseltamivir, peramivir,
and zanamivir has been used for severely ill persons infected with A (H7N9)
viruses, but the effectiveness for severe disease has not yet been determined
[23-27].

Similar to seasonal viruses, most influenza A (H7N9) and A (H5N1) viruses are
susceptible to the neuraminidase inhibitors (oseltamivir, peramivir and
zanamivir), but resistant to the adamantanes (amantadine and rimantadine).
Therefore, amantadine and rimantadine are not recommended for treatment of
novel influenza A virus infections.

 Top of Page

### Recommendations

#### _Hospitalized Patients_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Initiation of antiviral treatment with a neuraminidase inhibitor is recommended as early as possible for hospitalized patients who are confirmed cases, probable cases, or cases under investigation of human infection with novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease, even if more than 48 hours has elapsed since illness onset.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **For hospitalized patients and outpatients with severe, complicated, or progressive illness (e.g., development of pneumonia), treatment with oral or enterically administered oseltamivir is recommended. 3** Inhaled zanamivir is not recommended because of the lack of data for use in patients with severe influenza. There is also insufficient data regarding efficacy of intravenous (IV) peramivir for hospitalized patients.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Antiviral treatment should not be delayed while waiting for laboratory testing results.** (For information regarding collection and laboratory testing, see the Interim Guidance for Specimen Collection, Processing, and Testing for Patients with Suspected Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease in Humans.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **The standard dose of oseltamivir is 75 mg twice daily for 5 days. However, the optimal duration and dose are uncertain for severe or complicated influenza. Influenza A (H5N1) and A (H7N9) viruses have been shown to be associated with higher virus loads and more sustained viral replication (particularly in the lower respiratory tract) than seasonal influenza [23, 26, 28-30]. Pending further data, longer courses of treatment (e.g., 10 days) should be considered for severely ill hospitalized patients with infections with novel influenza A viruses that cause severe disease.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinical judgment and virologic testing of lower respiratory tract specimens by RT-PCR should guide decisions to consider treatment regimens longer than 5 days for patients with severe and prolonged illness. For patients with lower respiratory tract disease, lower respiratory tract specimens such as bronchoalveolar lavage fluid or endotracheal aspirate are preferred; an oropharyngeal (throat) swab may be collected if lower respiratory specimens are not available. Lower respiratory tract specimens may yield the diagnosis when testing of upper respiratory tract specimens yield negative results. Multiple respiratory tract specimens collected on different days should be tested if novel influenza A virus infection associated with severe disease is suspected without another definitive diagnosis.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Longer treatment regimens might be necessary in severely immunosuppressed persons (e.g., hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients) who may have prolonged influenza viral replication. Such patients are at risk of developing antiviral-resistant virus.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * A higher dose of oseltamivir has been recommended by some experts (e.g., 150 mg twice daily in adults with normal renal function instead of the standard 75 mg twice daily dose) for treatment of influenza in immunocompromised patients and in severely ill hospitalized patients [31]. However, oral or enterically administered oseltamivir has been reported to be adequately absorbed in critically ill adults, with standard doses producing therapeutic blood levels [32]. Although the higher dose was generally well-tolerated and not associated with severe adverse events, limited data suggest that higher dosing may not provide additional clinical benefit for seasonal influenza and for pandemic 2009 influenza A (H1N1) [33, 34]. Studies indicate that the exposure to oseltamivir carboxylate (the active metabolite of oseltamivir) is similar between obese and non-obese subjects for both 75 mg and 150 mg doses given twice daily [35-37].
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Limited data suggest that oseltamivir administered orally or by oro/naso gastric tube is well absorbed in critically ill influenza patients** , including those in the intensive care unit, on continuous renal replacement therapy, and/or on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation [32, 38-44]. However, for patients who cannot tolerate or absorb oral or enterically-administered oseltamivir because of suspected or known gastric stasis, malabsorption, or gastrointestinal bleeding, the use of IV peramivir or investigational IV zanamivir should be considered. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * While studies have shown benefit of parenteral peramivir for treatment of uncomplicated influenza in outpatients [11, 45], a randomized trial of treatment of seasonal influenza in hospitalized patients aged >6 years failed to demonstrate significant clinical benefit for intravenous peramivir plus standard of care compared with placebo plus standard of care. However, peramivir was generally safe and well tolerated at a dosage of 600 mg once daily (10 mg/kg once daily in children) for 5 days [46]. If used to treat hospitalized patients with novel influenza A viruses, this dose of IV peramivir is recommended for a minimum of 5 days (not a single dose as is recommended for outpatients with uncomplicated illness).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * IV zanamivir is an investigational, parenterally administered neuraminidase inhibitor product available only by enrollment in an ongoing clinical trial, or under an emergency investigational new drug (EIND) request to the manufacturer **for compassionate use in hospitalized adult and pediatric patients with severe influenza.** (See CDC Considerations Related to Investigational Use of Intravenous Zanamivir for 2014-2015 Influenza Season.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Use of zanamivir in combination with oseltamivir or peramivir is not recommended, on the basis of data which suggest antagonism may occur when they are given simultaneously.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **It is possible that some novel influenza A viruses may become resistant to oseltamivir and peramivir during antiviral treatment with one of these agents and remain susceptible to zanamivir [29, 47-50]**. If a hospitalized patient treated with oseltamivir and/or peramivir manifests progressive lower respiratory disease, the presence of a resistant virus should be considered. After consultation with CDC's Influenza Division, investigation for antiviral resistance should be performed. Oseltamivir or peramivir should not be stopped until IV zanamivir can be initiated. (See CDC Considerations Related to Investigational Use of Intravenous Zanamivir for 2014-2015 Influenza Season.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Any questions regarding arranging testing for antiviral resistance, or regarding appropriate clinical management if antiviral resistance is a concern, should be directed to the CDC Influenza Division via the CDC Emergency Operations Center (770-488-7100).

#### _Outpatients_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Initiation of antiviral treatment with a neuraminidase inhibitor is recommended as early as possible for outpatients who are confirmed cases, probable cases, or cases under investigation based on exposure criteria consisting of contact with a confirmed human novel influenza A case or unprotected exposure in a laboratory.** Treatment is not currently recommended for uncomplicated illness in outpatients whose exposure criteria consists only of travel to an area with human cases of H7N9 or H5N1, or where these viruses are known to be circulating in animals (see H7N9 case definitions and H5N1 case definitions).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **For outpatients with severe, progressive, or complicated illness, oseltamivir is recommended. For other outpatients, oral oseltamivir, inhaled zanamivir, or IV peramivir may be used. 3**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **When warranted, antiviral treatment should be initiated as early as possible, even if more than 48 hours has elapsed since illness onset.** For illness caused by novel influenza A viruses associated with severe disease, treatment is recommended even for otherwise healthy persons, but is especially important for those at higher risk of influenza complications: this includes children <5 years, with highest risk for those aged <2 years old, adults aged ≥65 years, pregnant women, and persons with certain underlying medical conditions. (See the complete list of people considered to be at higher risk for influenza complications in the Influenza Antiviral Medications: Summary for Clinicians.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **For outpatients who are confirmed cases, probable cases, or cases under investigation with uncomplicated disease in whom fever is absent and symptoms are nearly resolved, decisions to initiate antiviral treatment should be based on clinical judgment.** Persons who are not treated with antiviral medications should be monitored for progression of illness.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Recommended treatment duration for uncomplicated influenza with a novel influenza A virus associated with severe human disease is two doses per day of oral oseltamivir or inhaled zanamivir for 5 days.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * For IV peramivir, there are insufficient data for use in outpatients with infection with novel influenza A viruses that cause severe disease. The recommendation for uncomplicated seasonal influenza is one dose of IV peramivir for 1 day. For treatment of novel influenza A viruses, a single IV infusion is not recommended. Until evidence is available, if peramivir treatment is chosen, it should be given for at least 5 days.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Inhaled zanamivir is not recommended for persons with underlying airway disease (e.g., asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease).

For additional guidance on the use of influenza antiviral agents, including
dosage recommendations for treatment by age group, please see the Influenza
Antiviral Medications: Summary for Clinicians.

CDC will continue to evaluate new information as it becomes available and will
update this guidance as needed. Updated information will be provided on CDC's
Avian Influenza website.

1 This guidance is intended to address human infections with novel influenza A
viruses that cause severe or progressive disease in otherwise healthy persons
resulting in hospitalization and/or death. A number of different subtypes of
novel influenza A viruses have been reported to cause severe pneumonia and
death, including H5N1, H7N9, H7N2, H7N7, H9N2, H10N8, and H3N2v viruses;
however, currently only H5N1 and H7N9 have caused severe illness in a high
proportion of cases and have been reported in substantial numbers.

2 "Outpatient" in this document refers to any patient in the ambulatory care
setting, including emergency departments, urgent care and other clinics.

3 Oral oseltamivir is approved by the FDA for treatment of acute uncomplicated
influenza in persons ≥14 days old. Although use of oral oseltamivir for
treatment of influenza in infants less than 14 days old is not part of the
FDA-approved indication, it is recommended by the CDC and the American Academy
of Pediatrics for treatment of influenza in patients of any age. Inhaled
zanamivir is approved for treatment of acute uncomplicated influenza in
persons aged 7 years and older. Clinicians may refer to the manufacturer's
package inserts for additional information regarding dosing, limitations of
populations studied, contraindications, and adverse events. Please see FDA
Approved Drugs for InfluenzaExternal.

 Top of Page

**Table**. Antiviral treatment recommendations according to case definition
category for human infection with novel influenza A viruses associated with
severe disease. (See H7N9 case definitions and H5N1 case definitions.)



#### Case Category

#### Definition

#### Antiviral Treatment

#### Case Category

**Confirmed Case**

#### Definition

Novel influenza A virus infection in a patient that is confirmed by CDC's
Influenza Laboratory or a CDC certified public health laboratory using methods
agreed upon by the CDC and the Council of State and Territorial
Epidemiologists. Confirmation of novel influenza A viruses may be made by
public health laboratories following CDC-approved protocols for detection of
novel influenza A viruses, or by laboratories using an FDA-authorized test
specific for detection of novel influenza A viruses.

#### Antiviral Treatment

Recommended for all (hospitalized patients and outpatients)

#### Case Category

**Probable Case**

#### Definition

Illness compatible with influenza in a patient meeting any of the exposure
criteria below and for whom laboratory diagnostic testing is positive for
influenza A, negative for H1, negative for H1pdm09, and negative for H3 by
real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and
therefore unsubtypeable.

#### Antiviral Treatment

Recommended for all (hospitalized patients and outpatients)

#### Case Category

**Case under investigation**

#### Definition

Illness compatible with influenza in a patient meeting any of the exposure
criteria below and for whom laboratory confirmation is not known or pending or
for whom test results do not provide a sufficient level of detail to confirm
novel influenza A virus infection.

#### Antiviral Treatment

#### Case Category

**Exposed during travel**

#### Definition

Patients with recent travel (within <10 days of illness onset) to areas where
human cases of novel influenza A virus infection have become infected or to
areas where novel influenza A viruses are known to be circulating in animals.2

#### Antiviral Treatment

Recommended for hospitalized patients

#### Case Category

**Exposed to confirmed or probable case**

#### Definition

Patients who have had recent close contact (within <10 days of illness onset)
with confirmed or suspected3 cases of human infection with novel influenza A
virus. Close contact may be regarded as coming within about 6 feet (2 meters)
of a confirmed case while the case was ill (beginning 1 day prior to illness
onset and continuing until resolution of illness). This includes healthcare
personnel providing care for a confirmed case, family members of a confirmed
case, persons who lived with or stayed overnight with a confirmed case, and
others who have had similar close physical contact.4

#### Antiviral Treatment

Recommended for all (hospitalized patients and outpatients)

#### Case Category

**Exposure to birds infected with avian influenza**

#### Definition

Patients who have had recent contact5 (within <10 days of illness onset) to
infected sick or dead birds, or infected flocks.

#### Antiviral Treatment

Recommended for all (hospitalized patients and outpatients)

#### Case Category

**Unprotected laboratory exposure**

#### Definition

Patients who have had recent (within <10 days of illness onset) unprotected
exposure to live novel influenza A virus in a laboratory.

#### Antiviral Treatment

Recommended for all (hospitalized patients and outpatients)

1 For hospitalized patients and outpatients with severe, progressive, or
complicated disease, oseltamivir is recommended. Inhaled zanamivir and IV
peramivir are not recommended because of the lack of data for these patients.
For outpatients with uncomplicated influenza, oseltamivir, inhaled zanamivir,
or IV peramivir may be used. For specific dosage recommendations for treatment
by age group, please see
https://www.cdc.gov/flu/professionals/antivirals/antiviral-dosage.htm.  
2 As of March 19, 2015, China was the only country where H7N9 viruses were
known to be circulating in animals (poultry) or where human cases have become
infected. For H5N1, please see WHO website.
http://www.who.int/influenza/human_animal_interface/EN_GIP_20131210CumulativeNumberH5N1cases.pdf
Cdc-pdfCdc-pdf[39 KB, 2 pages]ExternalExternal and link to countries with
animal cases. For more information, including updates on countries affected,
please see the CDC Novel/Avian Influenza A Virus Home Page.  
3 Patients suspected of having infection with a novel influenza A virus can
include probable cases, cases under investigation for infection with novel
influenza A virus, and other patients for whom available clinical and
epidemiologic information support a diagnosis of infection with novel
influenza A virus.  
4 Limited non-sustained person-to-person transmission of H7N9 virus could not
be excluded in some family clusters [51]. Limited non-sustained person-to-
person transmission of H5N1 virus has been reported in several countries
following close, prolonged unprotectedcontact with a severely ill H5N1
patient, including in household and hospital settings.  
5 May include: contact with birds (e.g., handling, slaughtering, defeathering,
butchering, preparation for consumption); direct contact with surfaces
contaminated with feces or bird parts (carcasses, internal organs, etc.); or
prolonged exposure to birds in a confined space.

Top of Page

### References

1\. Randomised trial of efficacy and safety of inhaled zanamivir in treatment
of influenza A and B virus infections. The MIST (Management of Influenza in
the Southern Hemisphere Trialists) Study Group. Lancet 1998; 352(9144):
1877-81.

2\. Hedrick JA, Barzilai A, Behre U, et al. Zanamivir for treatment of
symptomatic influenza A and B infection in children five to twelve years of
age: a randomized controlled trial. The Pediatric infectious disease journal
2000; 19(5): 410-7.

3\. Hayden FG, Osterhaus AD, Treanor JJ, et al. Efficacy and safety of the
neuraminidase inhibitor zanamivir in the treatment of influenzavirus
infections. GG167 Influenza Study Group. The New England journal of medicine
1997; 337(13): 874-80.

4\. Heinonen S, Silvennoinen H, Lehtinen P, et al. Early oseltamivir treatment
of influenza in children 1-3 years of age: a randomized controlled trial.
Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious
Diseases Society of America 2010; 51(8): 887-94.

5\. Monto AS, Fleming DM, Henry D, et al. Efficacy and safety of the
neuraminidase inhibitor zanamivirin the treatment of influenza A and B virus
infections. The Journal of infectious diseases 1999; 180(2): 254-61.

6\. Monto AS, Moult AB, Sharp SJ. Effect of zanamivir on duration and
resolution of influenza symptoms. Clinical therapeutics 2000; 22(11):
1294-305.

7\. Nicholson KG, Aoki FY, Osterhaus AD, et al. Efficacy and safety of
oseltamivir in treatment of acute influenza: a randomised controlled trial.
Neuraminidase Inhibitor Flu Treatment Investigator Group. Lancet 2000;
355(9218): 1845-50.

8\. Treanor JJ, Hayden FG, Vrooman PS, et al. Efficacy and safety of the oral
neuraminidase inhibitor oseltamivir in treating acute influenza: a randomized
controlled trial. US Oral Neuraminidase Study Group. JAMA : the journal of the
American Medical Association 2000; 283(8): 1016-24.

9\. Whitley RJ, Hayden FG, Reisinger KS, et al. Oral oseltamivir treatment of
influenza in children. The Pediatric infectious disease journal 2001; 20(2):
127-33.

10\. Fry AM, Goswami D, Nahar K, et al. Efficacy of oseltamivir treatment
started within 5 days of symptom onset to reduce influenza illness duration
and virus shedding in an urban setting in Bangladesh: a randomised placebo-
controlled trial. The Lancet infectious diseases 2014; 14(2): 109-18.

11\. Kohno S, Kida H, Mizuguchi M, Shimada J, Group SCS. Efficacy and safety
of intravenous peramivir for treatment of seasonal influenza virus infection.
Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy 2010; 54(11): 4568-74.

12\. Hernan MA, Lipsitch M. Oseltamivir and risk of lower respiratory tract
complications in patients with flu symptoms: a meta-analysis of eleven
randomized clinical trials. Clinical infectious diseases : an official
publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America 2011; 53(3): 277-9.

13\. Lipsitch M, Hernan MA. Oseltamivir effect on antibiotic-treated lower
respiratory tract complications in virologically positive randomized trial
participants. Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the
Infectious Diseases Society of America 2013; 57(9): 1368-9.

14\. Dobson J, Whitley RJ, Pocock S, Monto AS. Oseltamivir treatment for
influenza in adults: a meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. Lancet
2015.

15\. Louie JK, Yang S, Acosta M, et al. Treatment with neuraminidase
inhibitors for critically ill patients with influenza A (H1N1)pdm09. Clinical
infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases
Society of America 2012; 55(9): 1198-204.

16\. Muthuri SG, Venkatesan S, Miles PR, et al. Effectiveness of neuraminidase
inhibitors in reducing mortality in patients admitted to hospital with
influenza A H1N1pdm09 virus infection: a meta-analysis of individual
participant data. Lancet Respir Med 2014: doi:10.1016/S2213-600(14)70041-4.

17\. Siston AM, Rasmussen SA, Honein MA, et al. Pandemic 2009 influenza
A(H1N1) virus illness among pregnant women in the United States. JAMA : the
journal of the American Medical Association 2010; 303(15): 1517-25.

18\. Yu H, Feng Z, Uyeki TM, et al. Risk factors for severe illness with 2009
pandemic influenza A (H1N1) virus infection in China. Clinical infectious
diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of
America 2011; 52(4): 457-65.

19\. Adisasmito W, Chan PK, Lee N, et al. Effectiveness of antiviral treatment
in human influenza A(H5N1) infections: analysis of a Global Patient Registry.
The Journal of infectious diseases 2010; 202(8): 1154-60.

20\. McGeer A, Green KA, Plevneshi A, et al. Antiviral therapy and outcomes of
influenza requiring hospitalization in Ontario, Canada. Clinical infectious
diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of
America 2007; 45(12): 1568-75.

2121\. Lee N, Choi KW, Chan PK, et al. Outcomes of adults hospitalised with
severe influenza. Thorax 2010; 65(6): 510-5.

22\. Lee N, Cockram CS, Chan PK, Hui DS, Choi KW, Sung JJ. Antiviral treatment
for patients hospitalized with severe influenza infection may affect clinical
outcomes. Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the
Infectious Diseases Society of America 2008; 46(8): 1323-4.

23\. Gao HN, Lu HZ, Cao B, et al. Clinical findings in 111 cases of influenza
A (H7N9) virus infection. The New England journal of medicine 2013; 368(24):
2277-85.

24\. Chen Y, Liang W, Yang S, et al. Human infections with the emerging avian
influenza A H7N9 virus from wet market poultry: clinical analysis and
characterisation of viral genome. Lancet 2013; 381(9881): 1916-25.

25\. Gao R, Cao B, Hu Y, et al. Human infection with a novel avian-origin
influenza A (H7N9) virus. The New England journal of medicine 2013; 368(20):
1888-97.

26\. Hu Y, Lu S, Song Z, et al. Association between adverse clinical outcome
in human disease caused by novel influenza A H7N9 virus and sustained viral
shedding and emergence of antiviral resistance. Lancet 2013.

27\. Ho PL, Sin WC, Chan JF, Cheng VC, Chan KH. Severe influenza A H7N9
pneumonia with rapid virological response to intravenous zanamivir. The
European respiratory journal 2014; 44(2): 535-7.

28\. de Jong MD, Simmons CP, Thanh TT, et al. Fatal outcome of human influenza
A (H5N1) is associated with high viral load and hypercytokinemia. Nature
medicine 2006; 12(10): 1203-7.

29\. de Jong MD, Tran TT, Truong HK, et al. Oseltamivir resistance during
treatment of influenza A (H5N1) infection. The New England journal of medicine
2005; 353(25): 2667-72.

30\. Yu L, Wang Z, Chen Y, et al. Clinical, virological, and histopathological
manifestations of fatal human infections by avian influenza A(H7N9) virus.
Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious
Diseases Society of America 2013; 57(10): 1449-57.

31\. Writing Committee of the Second World Health Organization Consultation on
Clinical Aspects of Human Infection with Avian Influenza AV, Abdel-Ghafar AN,
Chotpitayasunondh T, et al. Update on avian influenza A (H5N1) virus infection
in humans. The New England journal of medicine 2008; 358(3): 261-73.

32\. Ariano RE, Sitar DS, Zelenitsky SA, et al. Enteric absorption and
pharmacokinetics of oseltamivir in critically ill patients with pandemic
(H1N1) influenza. CMAJ : Canadian Medical Association journal = journal de
l'Association medicale canadienne 2010; 182(4): 357-63.

33\. Lee N, Hui DS, Zuo Z, et al. A prospective intervention study on higher-
dose oseltamivir treatment in adults hospitalized with influenza a and B
infections. Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the
Infectious Diseases Society of America 2013; 57(11): 1511-9.

34\. South East Asia Infectious Disease Clinical Research N. Effect of double
dose oseltamivir on clinical and virological outcomes in children and adults
admitted to hospital with severe influenza: double blind randomised controlled
trial. Bmj 2013; 346: f3039.

35\. Jittamala P, Pukrittayakamee S, Tarning J, et al. Pharmacokinetics of
orally administered oseltamivir in healthy obese and non-obese Thai subjects.
Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy 2013.

36\. Pai MP, Lodise TP, Jr. Oseltamivir and oseltamivir carboxylate
pharmacokinetics in obese adults: dose modification for weight is not
necessary. Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy 2011; 55(12): 5640-5.

37\. Thorne-Humphrey LM, Goralski KB, Slayter KL, et al. Oseltamivir
pharmacokinetics in morbid obesity (OPTIMO trial). The Journal of
antimicrobial chemotherapy 2011; 66(9): 2083-91.

38\. Eyler RF, Heung M, Pleva M, et al. Pharmacokinetics of oseltamivir and
oseltamivir carboxylate in critically ill patients receiving continuous
venovenous hemodialysis and/or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.
Pharmacotherapy 2012; 32(12): 1061-9.

39\. Giraud C, Manceau S, Oualha M, et al. High levels and safety of
oseltamivir carboxylate plasma concentrations after nasogastric administration
in critically ill children in a pediatric intensive care unit. Antimicrobial
agents and chemotherapy 2011; 55(1): 433-5.

40\. Mulla H, Peek GJ, Harvey C, Westrope C, Kidy Z, Ramaiah R. Oseltamivir
pharmacokinetics in critically ill adults receiving extracorporeal membrane
oxygenation support. Anaesthesia and intensive care 2013; 41(1): 66-73.

41\. Taylor WR, Thinh BN, Anh GT, et al. Oseltamivir is adequately absorbed
following nasogastric administration to adult patients with severe H5N1
influenza. PloS one 2008; 3(10): e3410.

42\. Eyler RF, Klein KC, Mueller BA. The pharmacokinetics of oseltamivir and
oseltamivir carboxylate in a critically ill pediatric patient receiving
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and continuous venovenous hemodialysis.
The journal of pediatric pharmacology and therapeutics : JPPT : the official
journal of PPAG 2012; 17(2): 173-6.

43\. Kromdijk W, Sikma MA, van den Broek MP, Beijnen JH, Huitema AD, de Lange
DW. Pharmacokinetics of oseltamivir carboxylate in critically ill patients:
each patient is unique. Intensive care medicine 2013; 39(5): 977-8.

44\. Lemaitre F, Luyt CE, Roullet-Renoleau F, et al. Impact of extracorporeal
membrane oxygenation and continuous venovenous hemodiafiltration on the
pharmacokinetics of oseltamivir carboxylate in critically ill patients with
pandemic (H1N1) influenza. Therapeutic drug monitoring 2012; 34(2): 171-5.

45\. Whitley R, Laughlin A, Carson S, et al. Single dose peramivir for the
treatment of acute seasonal influenza: integrated analysis of efficacy and
safety from two placebo-controlled trials. Antiviral therapy 2014.

46\. de Jong MD, Ison MG, Monto AS, et al. Evaluation of intravenous peramivir
for treatment of influenza in hospitalized patients. Clinical infectious
diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of
America 2014; 59(12): e172-85.

47\. Earhart KC, Elsayed NM, Saad MD, et al. Oseltamivir resistance mutation
N294S in human influenza A(H5N1) virus in Egypt. Journal of infection and
public health 2009; 2(2): 74-80.

48\. Le QM, Kiso M, Someya K, et al. Avian flu: isolation of drug-resistant
H5N1 virus. Nature 2005; 437(7062): 1108.

49\. Baek YH, Song MS, Lee EY, et al. Profiling and characterization of
influenza virus N1 strains potentially resistant to multiple neuraminidase
inhibitors. Journal of virology 2015; 89(1): 287-99.

50\. Hai R, Schmolke M, Leyva-Grado VH, et al. Influenza A(H7N9) virus gains
neuraminidase inhibitor resistance without loss of in vivo virulence or
transmissibility. Nature communications 2013; 4: 2854.

51\. Li Q, Zhou L, Zhou M, et al. Epidemiology of human infections with avian
influenza A(H7N9) virus in China. The New England journal of medicine 2014;
370(6): 520-32.

Top of Page

**Avian influenza A viruses with the potential to cause severe human disease
currently include the following virusesdetected in wild and domestic birds in
the United States beginning in December 2014:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Highly pathogenic avian influenza A (H5N2) virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Highly pathogenic avian influenza A (H5N8) virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Highly pathogenic avian influenza A (H5N1) virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avian influenza A (H7N8) virus

|

**Avian influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease currently
include the following:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Low pathogenic avian influenza A (H7N9) virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Highly pathogenic Asian-origin avian influenza A (H5N1) virus  
  
---|---  
  
|

**Guidance Type**

|

**Viruses**  
  
---|---  
  
**Summary for Clinicians**

|

Summary of guidance for all viruses that have the potential to cause severe
disease  
  
**Testing and Reporting**

|

Guidance for all viruses that have the potential to cause severe disease  
  
**Case Definitions**

|

HPAI H5 in the United States  
  
**Infection Control**

|

_See guidance for viruses associated with severe disease_  
  
**Treatment**

|

_See guidance for viruses associated with severe disease_  
  
**Chemoprophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds**

|

Guidance for all viruses that have the potential to cause severe disease  
  
**Chemoprophylaxis of Followup of Close Contacts**

|

_See guidance for viruses associated with severe disease_  
  
|

**Guidance Type**

|

**Viruses**  
  
---|---  
  
**Summary for Clinicians**

|

Not available  
  
**Testing and Reporting**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Case Definitions**

|

H7N9

|

Asian-lineage H5N1  
  
**Infection Control**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Treatment**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Chemoprophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Chemoprophylaxis and Followup of Close Contacts**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Avian influenza A viruses with the potential to cause severe human disease
currently include the following virusesdetected in wild and domestic birds in
the United States beginning in December 2014:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Highly pathogenic avian influenza A (H5N2) virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Highly pathogenic avian influenza A (H5N8) virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Highly pathogenic avian influenza A (H5N1) virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avian influenza A (H7N8) virus

**Guidance Type**

|

**Viruses**  
  
---|---  
  
**Summary for Clinicians**

|

Summary of guidance for all viruses that have the potential to cause severe
disease  
  
**Testing and Reporting**

|

Guidance for all viruses that have the potential to cause severe disease  
  
**Case Definitions**

|

HPAI H5 in the United States  
  
**Infection Control**

|

_See guidance for viruses associated with severe disease_  
  
**Treatment**

|

_See guidance for viruses associated with severe disease_  
  
**Chemoprophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds**

|

Guidance for all viruses that have the potential to cause severe disease  
  
**Chemoprophylaxis of Followup of Close Contacts**

|

_See guidance for viruses associated with severe disease_  
  
**Avian influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease currently
include the following:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Low pathogenic avian influenza A (H7N9) virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Highly pathogenic Asian-origin avian influenza A (H5N1) virus

**Guidance Type**

|

**Viruses**  
  
---|---  
  
**Summary for Clinicians**

|

Not available  
  
**Testing and Reporting**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Case Definitions**

|

H7N9

|

Asian-lineage H5N1  
  
**Infection Control**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Treatment**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Chemoprophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Chemoprophylaxis and Followup of Close Contacts**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
Page last reviewed: April 7, 2015

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)

home Avian Flu

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bird Flu Basics expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Avian Influenza Type A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bird Flu in Birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bird Flu in People expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Spread of Bird Flu Viruses Between Animals and People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Examples of Human Infections with Avian Influenza A Viruses with Possible Limited, Non-Sustained Human-to-Human Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevention and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Information for Specific Groups expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Information for People Exposed to Birds Infected with Avian Influenza Viruses of Public Health Concern
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Recommendations for Worker Protection and Use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Self-Observation Instructions for Demobilizing Bird Flu Responders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Current Situation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specific Avian Flu Viruses expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Avian Influenza Type A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Asian Avian Influenza A (H5N1) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H5N1 in Birds and Other Animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H5N1 in People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Public Health Threat of Highly Pathogenic Asian Avian Influenza A (H5N1) Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H5N1 Genetic Changes Inventory expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Inventory Preamble
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Inventory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Questions & Answers: H5N1 Genetic Change Inventory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HPAI A H5 Virus Background and Clinical Illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Asian Lineage Avian Influenza A (H7N9) Virus expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * H7N9 Images
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pandemic Response Planning Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * North American Lineage AI Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Outbreaks expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * H5 Viruses in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * U.S. H5 outbreaks in 2014-2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * U.S. H7N8 in 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * U.S. H7N2 in cats in 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Care & Laboratorian Guidance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Case Definitions expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * U.S. H5 Virus Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Asian H5N1 Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Asian H7N9 Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Testing, Reporting & Lab Information expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specimen Collection and Testing for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses with Potential to Cause Severe Disease in Humans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specimen Collection and Testing for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease in Humans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diagnostics for Detecting H7N9 Using rRT-PCR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC and USDA: Interim Risk Assessment and Biosafety Level Recommendations for Working with Influenza A (H7N9) Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Infection Control Within Healthcare Settings for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Treatment and Prophylaxis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * For Clinicians: Evaluating and Managing Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Use of Antiviral Medications for Treatment of Human Infections with Novel Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Antiviral Chemoprophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds with Avian Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Follow-up of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses and Use of Antiviral Chemoprophylaxis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What CDC Does expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Risk Assessment & Research expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Researching the Virus 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Dual Use Research of Concern
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Preparedness and Response expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Making a Candidate Vaccine Virus 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avian Influenza Related Links
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * News & Spotlights

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![1918 Pandemic flu commemoration website.](/flu/images/pandemic-1918-flu.jpg)



Influenza Types

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Seasonal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Swine/Variant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Influenza in Animals

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

