https://www.cdc.gov/flu/avianflu/severe-potential.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/flu/avianflu/severe-potential.htm    
                Description: Interim Guidance on Testing, Specimen Collection, and Processing for Patients with Suspected Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses with the Potential to Cause Severe Disease in Humans - CDC    
                Keywords: novel influenza A viruses, Asian-lineage avian influenza, H5N2, H5N8, H5N1, potential severe disease in humans, newly detected viruses    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Influenza (Flu)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Interim Guidance on Testing, Specimen Collection, and Processing for
Patients with Suspected Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses with the
Potential to Cause Severe Disease in Humans

EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Background and Purpose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recommendations for Surveillance, Testing, and Investigation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * When Specimens Should Be Collected
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Infection Control when Collecting Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preferred Respiratory Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Swabs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Storing Clinical Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Shipping Clinical Specimens to State Public Health Laboratories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diagnostic Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Testing at State Health Departments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Antiviral Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Shipping Clinical Specimens to CDC

This guidance pertains to newly detected avian influenza (H5) viruses in the
U.S. (H5N2, H5N8, and the new reassortant H5N1 virus).

###  Background and Purpose

This document provides interim guidance for clinicians and public health
professionals in the United States on appropriate testing, specimen collection
and processing for patients who may be infected with novel influenza A viruses
with the potential to cause severe illness in people. Examples of such viruses
include Asian-lineage avian influenza A(H5N2), (H5N8), and (H5N1)1 viruses,
which were detected in wild and domestic birds in North America in December
2014 and January 2015; these viruses may have some or all of their genes from
Asian avian influenza viruses, but for simplicity will all be referred to as
"newly detected avian influenza A H5" viruses in this guidance document. Other
newly detected avian influenza A H5 viruses also may have the potential to
cause severe disease in humans. For a list of avian influenza A H5 virus
infections identified in birds in the United States, and their locations,
please see an update on avian influenza findings Cdc-pdf[599 KB, 26
pages]External maintained by the US Department of Agriculture. CDC will update
this guidance as additional information becomes available.

The appearance of newly detected avian influenza A H5 viruses in North America
may increase the likelihood of human infection with these viruses in the
United States. Because these newly identified avian influenza A H5 viruses are
related to avian influenza A viruses associated with severe disease in humans
(e.g., highly pathogenic Asian-lineage avian influenza A(H5N1) virus), they
should be regarded as having the potential to cause severe disease in humans
until shown otherwise. Other CDC guidance provides recommendations for
influenza viruses known to be associated with severe disease in humans.

1 The H5N1 virus isolated in the United States in January 2015 is a new mixed-
origin virus (a "reassortant") that is genetically different from the H5N1
virus found in several other countries (notably in Asia and Africa), which has
caused human infections with high mortality. Although it is related to the
H5N1 virus that has caused human infections with high mortality, the ability
of this new reassortant H5N1 virus to cause severe disease is currently
unknown.

###  Recommendations for Surveillance, Testing, and Investigation

Clinicians and public health personnel should consider the following
recommendations for surveillance and testing:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. Consider the possibility of infection with novel influenza A viruses with the potential to cause severe disease in humans in patients with medically-attended influenza-like illness (ILI) and acute respiratory infection (ARI) who have had recent contact1 (<10 days prior to illness onset) with **sick or dead birds** in any of the following categories2: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1. Domestic poultry (e.g., chickens, turkeys, ducks)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2. Wild aquatic birds (e.g., ducks, geese, swans)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3. Captive birds of prey (e.g., falcons) that have had contact with wild aquatic birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2. If infection with a novel influenza A virus with the potential to cause severe disease in humans is possible, respiratory specimens should be collected with appropriate infection control precautions and sent to the state or local health department for immediate testing (see guidance below).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3. If infection with a novel influenza A virus with the potential to cause severe disease in humans is suspected, state health departments are encouraged to initiate a public health investigation with animal health partners and should notify CDC promptly.

1 Contact may include: direct contact with birds (e.g., handling,
slaughtering, defeathering, butchering, preparation for consumption); or
direct contact with surfaces contaminated with feces or bird parts (carcasses,
internal organs, etc.); or prolonged exposure to birds in a confined space.

2 For questions or concerns about possible human infection in patients with
exposures to birds not listed here, please contact CDC. Exposures that occur
in geographic regions in the United States where newly detected avian
influenza A H5 viruses have been identified Cdc-pdf[599 kb, 26 pages]External
are of most concern.

###  When Specimens Should Be Collected

The duration of shedding of novel influenza A viruses in humans is largely
unknown, and there are currently limited data describing prolonged shedding of
people infected with these viruses. Therefore, the estimated duration of viral
shedding is based upon seasonal influenza virus infection. Specimens should be
obtained for novel influenza A virus testing as soon as possible after illness
onset, ideally within 7 days of illness onset. However, as some persons who
are infected with seasonal influenza viruses are known to shed virus for
longer periods (e.g., children and immunocompromised persons), specimens
should be tested for novel influenza A virus even if obtained after 7 days
from illness onset. Note that prolonged shedding of influenza virus in the
lower respiratory tract has been documented for critically ill patients with
highly-pathogenic avian influenza A H5N1 virus and avian influenza A H7N9
virus infections.

__ Top of Page

###  Infection Control when Collecting Specimens

Standard, contact, and airborne precautions are recommended for patient
management; this includes collection of respiratory specimens. Practitioners
should employ infection control precautions consistent with precautions
recommended for novel influenza A viruses known to cause severe disease in
humans. See Interim Guidance for Infection Control Within Healthcare Settings
When Caring for Confirmed Cases, Probable Cases, and Cases Under Investigation
for Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease
for more information and consult CDC for specific case-by-case infection
control recommendations if needed.

###  Preferred Respiratory Specimens

The following should be collected as soon as possible after illness onset: (i)
a nasopharyngeal swab, or (ii) a nasal aspirate or wash, or (iii) two swabs
combined into one viral transport media vial (e.g., nasal or nasopharyngeal
swab combined with an oropharyngeal swab). If these specimens cannot be
collected, a single nasal, or oropharyngeal swab is acceptable. For patients
with lower respiratory tract illness, a lower respiratory tract specimen
(e.g., an endotracheal aspirate or bronchoalveolar lavage fluid) may be
preferred (these specimens have a higher yield for detecting avian influenza A
H5N1 and H7N9 viruses and also may facilitate detection of other novel avian
influenza A viruses). Specimens should be placed into sterile viral transport
media and immediately placed on refrigerant gel-packs or at 4°C (refrigerator)
for transport to the laboratory.

If possible, in order to increase the potential for virus detection, multiple
respiratory specimens from different sites should be obtained from the same
patient on at least two consecutive days.

###  Swabs

Swab specimens should be collected using swabs with a synthetic tip (e.g.,
polyester or Dacron®) and an aluminum or plastic shaft. Swabs with cotton tips
and wooden shafts are not recommended. Specimens collected with swabs made of
calcium alginate are not acceptable. The swab specimen collection vials should
contain 1-3ml of viral transport medium (e.g., containing protein stabilizer,
antibiotics to discourage bacterial and fungal growth, and buffer solution).

###  Storing Clinical Specimens

Respiratory specimens should be kept at 4°C for no longer than 3 days.
Specimens can alternatively be frozen at ≤-70°C. Avoid freezing and thawing
specimens if at all possible.

###  Shipping Clinical Specimens to State Public Health Laboratories

Clinical specimens sent to state public health laboratories should be shipped
in the appropriate packaging and according to instructions by the laboratory.
If clinical specimens will be examined within 72 hours after collection, keep
the specimen at 4°C (2-8°C) and ship on refrigerant gel-packs, otherwise store
frozen at ≤-70°C and ship on dry ice. Avoid freezing and thawing specimens.
Viability of some pathogens from specimens that were frozen and then thawed is
greatly diminished. All specimens should be labeled clearly and include
information requested by your state public health laboratory.

__ Top of Page

###  Diagnostic Testing

The performance of current Food and Drug Administration (FDA) cleared
diagnostic tests for influenza has been demonstrated for seasonal human
influenza viruses as described by the manufacturer package insert. Performance
has not been demonstrated with most novel influenza A viruses. Although some
diagnostic assays may detect the presence of some novel influenza A viruses, a
negative result should not be used to rule out influenza when testing possible
human cases. Testing of symptomatic human cases for novel influenza A virus
infections should be referred to the nearest public health laboratory.

Existing, commercially available FDA-cleared molecular assays (e.g., rRT-PCR)
may fail to detect novel influenza A viruses or may detect with results that
indicate "influenza A positive", but with subtype undetected. For these assays
a novel influenza A virus may give an influenza A "unsubtypable" result.
Clinicians and laboratorians using molecular assays that are capable of
detecting all currently circulating influenza A subtypes (i.e., "seasonal
influenza" subtypes) who identify an unsubtypable result should contact CDC
and their state or local public health laboratory for additional testing (see
below).

Rapid influenza diagnostic tests (RIDTs) and immunofluorescence assays are
antigen detection tests that also have unknown sensitivity and specificity to
detect human infection with novel influenza A virus in clinical specimens.
Some studies suggest that antigen detection tests have low sensitivity to
detect H5N1 viruses. Therefore, negative results from either type of test do
not exclude novel influenza virus infection, especially in patients with signs
and symptoms suggestive of influenza. A negative test result could be a false
negative and should not be used as a final diagnostic test for influenza,
including novel influenza A virus infection. These tests may give a positive
influenza A result for a specimen containing novel influenza A virus, but
cannot identify the subtype and cannot distinguish a novel influenza A virus
from a seasonal influenza A virus. Therefore, testing by rRT-PCR is
recommended at state health laboratories for any patient with suspected novel
influenza A virus infection.

Clinicians should always consider diagnostic testing for other pathogens that
can cause acute febrile respiratory illness since novel influenza A virus
infections of humans are very rare, even in exposed persons.

###  Testing at State Health Departments

Clinicians should notify their state health department immediately when they
wish to test a patient for suspected infections with novel influenza A
viruses. Specimens to be tested for novel influenza A viruses should be sent
first to the state or local public health laboratory.

Testing can be performed by public health laboratories on a portion of the
specimen, while a portion of the sample should be reserved in case there is a
need to ship it to CDC. CDC should be notified immediately in the event that
any clinical specimens from suspected cases test positive for any novel
influenza A virus (e.g., H7N9 or H5N1 virus, other avian H5 viruses, or
variant influenza viruses2 such as H3N2v), and clinical specimens should be
shipped to CDC for confirmatory testing.

CDC Flu rRT-PCR Dx Panel testing algorithms should be used as described in the
package insert to rule out seasonal influenza virus infection. Public Health
officials should contact CDC immediately if they obtain unsubtypable results
when testing an influenza specimen.

Specimens that are unsubtypable or that are presumptive positive for novel
influenza A at the state public health laboratory should be sent to CDC,
Influenza Division, Virology Surveillance and Diagnosis Branch Laboratory for
confirmatory testing. Laboratories should not attempt to isolate novel
influenza A viruses using viral culture.

The following protocol may be used when testing for novel influenza A viruses
with the potential to cause severe disease in humans:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * All state public health laboratories should use the CDC Human Influenza Real-Time rRT-PCR Flu Diagnostic Panel to screen specimens for InfA, InfB, and RP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * State public health laboratories should test all InfA-positive specimens with the CDC Influenza A Subtyping kit using all primer/probe sets: H1, H3, pdmInfA and pdmH1. Detailed guidance for testing can be found in the influenza surveillance diagnostic testing algorithm disseminated recently by Association of Public Health Laboratories Cdc-pdf[27 KB, 1 page].
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Where patients may be infected with influenza A/H5 viruses (see Recommendations for Testing for H5N2 and H5N8 Virus Infections above), test also with H5 primer/probe set. Specimens that are positive for H5 virus by rRT-PCR at the state health department should be sent to CDC Influenza Division for additional testing as soon as possible.

2 Influenza viruses that normally circulate in pigs are termed "variant
viruses" when found in humans.

###  Antiviral Treatment

Until more information is available, antiviral treatment should be given to
all patients with possible infection with novel influenza A viruses with the
potential to cause severe disease in humans.

Antiviral treatment should not be withheld or delayed pending collection of
specimens or laboratory testing. Empiric treatment with a neuraminidase
inhibitor antiviral drug (oral oseltamivir, inhaled zanamivir, or IV
peramivir) should be administered immediately according to current guidelines.
For discussion of dosing and duration of therapy, see CDC's interim guidance
on the use of antiviral agents for treatment of human infections with avian
influenza A(H7N9) viruses.

__ Top of Page

###  Shipping Clinical Specimens to CDC

Specimens to be tested for novel influenza A virus that are shipped from state
public health laboratories to CDC should include all information required for
seasonal influenza surveillance isolate or specimen submission. Before sending
specimens, state and local health departments should contact the CDC Influenza
Division Epidemiology and Prevention Branch at (404) 639-3747 (Monday -
Friday, 8:30 AM - 5:00 PM or the on-call epidemiologist at (770) 488-7100 (all
other times).

Ship specimens to CDC at the following address:

Virology, Surveillance and Diagnosis Branch  
ATTN: Steve Lindstrom  
Influenza Division, NCIRD  
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  
1600 Clifton Road NE MS G-16  
Atlanta, GA 30333

__ Top of Page

**Avian influenza A viruses with the potential to cause severe human disease
currently include the following virusesdetected in wild and domestic birds in
the United States beginning in December 2014:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Highly pathogenic avian influenza A (H5N2) virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Highly pathogenic avian influenza A (H5N8) virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Highly pathogenic avian influenza A (H5N1) virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avian influenza A (H7N8) virus

|

**Avian influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease currently
include the following:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Low pathogenic avian influenza A (H7N9) virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Highly pathogenic Asian-origin avian influenza A (H5N1) virus  
  
---|---  
  
|

**Guidance Type**

|

**Viruses**  
  
---|---  
  
**Summary for Clinicians**

|

Summary of guidance for all viruses that have the potential to cause severe
disease  
  
**Testing and Reporting**

|

Guidance for all viruses that have the potential to cause severe disease  
  
**Case Definitions**

|

HPAI H5 in the United States  
  
**Infection Control**

|

_See guidance for viruses associated with severe disease_  
  
**Treatment**

|

_See guidance for viruses associated with severe disease_  
  
**Chemoprophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds**

|

Guidance for all viruses that have the potential to cause severe disease  
  
**Chemoprophylaxis of Followup of Close Contacts**

|

_See guidance for viruses associated with severe disease_  
  
|

**Guidance Type**

|

**Viruses**  
  
---|---  
  
**Summary for Clinicians**

|

Not available  
  
**Testing and Reporting**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Case Definitions**

|

H7N9

|

Asian-lineage H5N1  
  
**Infection Control**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Treatment**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Chemoprophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Chemoprophylaxis and Followup of Close Contacts**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Avian influenza A viruses with the potential to cause severe human disease
currently include the following virusesdetected in wild and domestic birds in
the United States beginning in December 2014:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Highly pathogenic avian influenza A (H5N2) virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Highly pathogenic avian influenza A (H5N8) virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Highly pathogenic avian influenza A (H5N1) virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avian influenza A (H7N8) virus

**Guidance Type**

|

**Viruses**  
  
---|---  
  
**Summary for Clinicians**

|

Summary of guidance for all viruses that have the potential to cause severe
disease  
  
**Testing and Reporting**

|

Guidance for all viruses that have the potential to cause severe disease  
  
**Case Definitions**

|

HPAI H5 in the United States  
  
**Infection Control**

|

_See guidance for viruses associated with severe disease_  
  
**Treatment**

|

_See guidance for viruses associated with severe disease_  
  
**Chemoprophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds**

|

Guidance for all viruses that have the potential to cause severe disease  
  
**Chemoprophylaxis of Followup of Close Contacts**

|

_See guidance for viruses associated with severe disease_  
  
**Avian influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease currently
include the following:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Low pathogenic avian influenza A (H7N9) virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Highly pathogenic Asian-origin avian influenza A (H5N1) virus

**Guidance Type**

|

**Viruses**  
  
---|---  
  
**Summary for Clinicians**

|

Not available  
  
**Testing and Reporting**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Case Definitions**

|

H7N9

|

Asian-lineage H5N1  
  
**Infection Control**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Treatment**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Chemoprophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
**Chemoprophylaxis and Followup of Close Contacts**

|

Guidance for all viruses that are associated with severe disease  
  
Page last reviewed: January 30, 2015

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)

home Avian Flu

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bird Flu Basics expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Avian Influenza Type A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bird Flu in Birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bird Flu in People expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Spread of Bird Flu Viruses Between Animals and People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Examples of Human Infections with Avian Influenza A Viruses with Possible Limited, Non-Sustained Human-to-Human Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevention and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Information for Specific Groups expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Information for People Exposed to Birds Infected with Avian Influenza Viruses of Public Health Concern
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Recommendations for Worker Protection and Use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Self-Observation Instructions for Demobilizing Bird Flu Responders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Current Situation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specific Avian Flu Viruses expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Avian Influenza Type A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Asian Avian Influenza A (H5N1) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H5N1 in Birds and Other Animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H5N1 in People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Public Health Threat of Highly Pathogenic Asian Avian Influenza A (H5N1) Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H5N1 Genetic Changes Inventory expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Inventory Preamble
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Inventory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Questions & Answers: H5N1 Genetic Change Inventory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HPAI A H5 Virus Background and Clinical Illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Asian Lineage Avian Influenza A (H7N9) Virus expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * H7N9 Images
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pandemic Response Planning Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * North American Lineage AI Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Outbreaks expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * H5 Viruses in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * U.S. H5 outbreaks in 2014-2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * U.S. H7N8 in 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * U.S. H7N2 in cats in 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Care & Laboratorian Guidance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Case Definitions expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * U.S. H5 Virus Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Asian H5N1 Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Asian H7N9 Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Testing, Reporting & Lab Information expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specimen Collection and Testing for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses with Potential to Cause Severe Disease in Humans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specimen Collection and Testing for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease in Humans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diagnostics for Detecting H7N9 Using rRT-PCR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC and USDA: Interim Risk Assessment and Biosafety Level Recommendations for Working with Influenza A (H7N9) Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Infection Control Within Healthcare Settings for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Treatment and Prophylaxis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * For Clinicians: Evaluating and Managing Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Use of Antiviral Medications for Treatment of Human Infections with Novel Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Antiviral Chemoprophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds with Avian Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Follow-up of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses and Use of Antiviral Chemoprophylaxis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What CDC Does expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Risk Assessment & Research expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Researching the Virus 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Dual Use Research of Concern
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Preparedness and Response expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Making a Candidate Vaccine Virus 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avian Influenza Related Links
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * News & Spotlights

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![1918 Pandemic flu commemoration website.](/flu/images/pandemic-1918-flu.jpg)



Influenza Types

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Seasonal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Swine/Variant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Influenza in Animals

**Error processing SSI file**  

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

