https://www.cdc.gov/flu/avianflu/novel-av-chemoprophylaxis-guidance.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/flu/avianflu/novel-av-chemoprophylaxis-guidance.htm    
                Description: Guidance for follow-up and antiviral chemoprophylaxis of close contacts of cases of human infection with novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease, including H7N9 and HPAI H5N1. - CDC    
                Keywords: novel influenza A virus, H7N9, HPAI H5N1, poultry, poultry exposure, severe human disease, close contacts, high-risk exposure, moderate-risk exposure, low-risk exposure, case-patient, case definitions, avian influenza A virus, guidance documents, chemoprophylaxis, human infection, antiviral agents, Asian-origin H5N1    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Influenza (Flu)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Interim Guidance on Follow-up of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with
Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Human Disease and on the Use
of Antiviral Medications for Chemoprophylaxis

EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

This guidance pertains to avian influenza A (H7N9), Asian H5N1, and the newly
detected avian influenza H5 viruses in the United States (H5N2, H5N8, and the
new reassortant H5N1 virus).

This document provides guidance for follow-up and antiviral chemoprophylaxis
of close contacts of cases of human infection with novel influenza A viruses
associated with severe human disease, which currently includes avian influenza
A (H7N9) virus and highly pathogenic avian influenza A (H5N1) virus.1 This
guidance merges previously posted guidance on the use of antiviral agents for
chemoprophylaxis of human infections with avian influenza A (H7N9) and avian
influenza A (H5N1).

This interim guidance is based on expert opinion and currently available
published and unpublished data for antiviral treatment and chemoprophylaxis of
seasonal, pandemic, and novel influenza. These recommendations are based on
the following considerations:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Novel influenza A viruses have caused severe human disease and substantial mortality among detected cases to date.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Limited, non-sustained human-to-human transmission cannot be excluded in some case clusters.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sufficient supplies of antiviral agents that are expected to be effective against novel influenza A viruses are available.

**The public health goal of this interim guidance is to prevent further spread
of novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease if there is
introduction/travel of infected persons into the United States. It is specific
to a scenario where there are sporadic cases associated with poultry exposure
and possible limited, non-sustained human-to-human virus transmission.**

This guidance will be updated as additional information on epidemiology and
transmissibility becomes available for novel influenza A viruses causing
severe human disease.

### Definition of Close Contacts

**Close contacts are defined as persons within approximately 6 feet (2 meters)
or within the room or care area of a confirmed or probable novel influenza A
case patient for a prolonged period of time, or with direct contact with
infectious secretions while the case patient was likely to be infectious
(beginning 1 day prior to illness onset and continuing until resolution of
illness).** 2

In general, decisions to initiate antiviral chemoprophylaxis should be guided
by the risk stratification described below,3 based on observational data for
reported cases of human infections with H7N9 and H5N1 viruses, and on data
from seasonal influenza studies.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. **Highest-risk exposure groups** (recognized risk of transmission) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Household or close family member contacts of a confirmed or probable case
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2. **Moderate-risk exposure groups** (unknown risk of transmission) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health care personnel with unprotected close contact with a confirmed or probable case
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3. **Low-risk exposure groups** (transmission unlikely) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Others who have had social contact of a short duration with a confirmed or probable case in a non-hospital setting (e.g., in a community or workplace environment)4

Persons with an unprotected exposure to novel influenza A virus associated
with severe human disease in a laboratory setting may have a high-risk or
moderate-risk exposure, and need to be evaluated case by case.

### Follow-up of Close Contacts of a Novel Influenza A Case-Patient

**Public health personnel should attempt to identify as soon as possible and
monitor all close contacts of all confirmed or probable cases of human
infection with novel influenza A viruses associated with severe human disease
for new illness.** (See H7N9 case definitions and H5N1 case definitions.)
Available data suggest that the estimated incubation period for human
infection with H5N1 and H7N9 viruses is generally 3 to 7 days, but has been
reported to be as long as 10 days [1-12].

**Therefore, identified close contacts should be monitored daily for 10 days
after the last known exposure to a confirmed or probable case.** Measured
temperature and presence of respiratory symptoms should be assessed daily
during this period. Any close contacts of a confirmed or probable case with a
measured temperature of ≥38.0°C (≥100.4°F) or any new respiratory symptoms
(e.g., cough, sore throat, shortness of breath, difficulty breathing) should
be referred for prompt medical evaluation and testing for novel influenza A
virus infection. To facilitate investigation, and if resources are available,
close contacts of cases under investigation (especially those with a high
index of suspicion) also may be identified and monitored for fever and
respiratory symptoms while the results of laboratory testing are pending.

### Post-exposure Antiviral Chemoprophylaxis of Asymptomatic Close Contacts

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Oral oseltamivir or inhaled zanamivir chemoprophylaxis should be provided to close contacts of a confirmed or probable novel influenza A case patient according to risk of exposure. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1. In highest-risk exposure groups, **chemoprophylaxis should be administered**.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2. In moderate-risk exposure groups, **chemoprophylaxis could be considered**.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3. In low-risk exposure groups, **chemoprophylaxis is not routinely recommended.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Decisions to initiate antiviral chemoprophylaxis for persons in moderate- and low-risk exposure groups should be based on clinical judgment, with consideration given to the type of exposure and to whether the close contact is at high risk for complications from influenza (See the Influenza Antiviral Medications: Summary for Clinicians).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Administration of chemoprophylaxis should begin as soon as possible (within 48 hours) after first exposure to the confirmed or probable case.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **The treatment frequency dosing for oral oseltamivir or inhaled zanamivir (one dose _twice_** **daily) is recommended instead of the typical antiviral chemoprophylaxis regimen ( _once_** **daily).** For specific dosage recommendations for treatment by age group, please see Recommended Dosage and Duration of Influenza Antiviral Medications for Treatment or Chemoprophylaxis and refer to the treatment dosing (twice daily) as provided for seasonal influenza. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * This recommendation for twice daily antiviral chemoprophylaxis dosing frequency is based on limited data that support higher chemoprophylaxis dosing in animals for avian influenza A (H5N1) virus [13], and on the desire to reduce the potential for development of antiviral resistance while receiving once daily chemoprophylaxis [14-16].
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Chemoprophylaxis with treatment frequency dosing (twice daily) of oseltamivir or inhaled zanamivir should be continued for 5 or 10 days. If exposure was time-limited and not ongoing, 5 days of medication from the last known exposure is recommended. If exposure is likely to be ongoing (e.g., household setting), 10 days is recommended because of the potential for prolonged infectiousness in the novel influenza A case patient.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Oral oseltamivir is recommended for persons of any age including newborn infants; inhaled zanamivir for persons aged 7 years and older.5 Inhaled zanamivir is not recommended for persons with underlying airway disease (e.g., asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). Physicians should consult the manufacturer's package insert for dosing, limitations of populations studied, contraindications, and adverse effects.

 Top of Page

### Antiviral Treatment of Symptomatic Close Contacts (Cases under
Investigation)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Symptomatic close contacts should be promptly tested for novel influenza A virus infection (see Interim Guidance for Specimen Collection, Processing, and Testing for Patients with Suspected Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease in Humans) and simultaneously treated with a neuraminidase inhibitor medication (oseltamivir, inhaled zanamivir, or intravenous (IV) peramivir). (See the Interim Guidance on the Use of Antiviral Medications for Treatment of Human Infections with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Human Disease.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Symptomatic persons should be requested to stay home except to seek medical care and limit contact with other persons until their illness is resolved.

### New Symptoms after Use of an Antiviral Agent

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * If a close contact becomes symptomatic or has worsening of symptoms after or during use of an antiviral agent, contact with other persons should be minimized, appropriate infection prevention and control measures should be used in health care settings (see Interim Guidance for Infection Control Within Healthcare Settings When Caring for Patients with Confirmed Cases, Probable Cases, and Cases Under Investigation for Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease, and respiratory specimens should be collected for novel influenza A virus testing at the state health department as soon as possible.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * If a close contact tests positive for H5N1 or H7N9 virus and had taken oseltamivir chemoprophylaxis for 3 or more days before becoming symptomatic [17], oseltamivir should be stopped as soon as treatment with inhaled zanamivir (twice daily) can be initiated. This is because some novel influenza A viruses may rapidly become oseltamivir-resistant (and potentially peramivir-resistant) and remain zanamivir-susceptible. If the patient manifests progressive lower respiratory disease, the patient should be promptly hospitalized for treatment with investigational IV zanamivir. IV zanamivir is an investigational parenterally administered neuraminidase inhibitor product available only either by enrollment in an ongoing phase III clinical trial, or under an emergency investigational new drug (EIND) request to the manufacturer **for compassionate use in hospitalized adult and pediatric patients with severe influenza**. (See CDC Considerations Related to Investigational Use of Intravenous Zanamivir for 2014-2015 Influenza Season.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Investigation for antiviral resistance should be initiated immediately (in conjunction with the CDC Influenza Division), and infection prevention and control measures recommended for patients with novel influenza A virus infection should be implemented. (See Interim Guidance for Infection Control Within Healthcare Settings When Caring for Confirmed Cases, Probable Cases, and Cases Under Investigation for Infection with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Questions regarding arranging testing for antiviral resistance, or regarding appropriate clinical management if antiviral resistance is a concern, should be directed to the CDC Influenza Division via the CDC Emergency Operations Center (770-488-7100).

CDC will provide updated information as it becomes available on the CDC
website at the avian influenza home page for health professionals and
laboratorians.

1 This guidance is intended to address human infections with novel influenza A
viruses that cause severe or progressive disease in otherwise healthy persons
resulting in hospitalization and/or death. A number of different subtypes of
novel influenza A viruses have been reported to cause severe pneumonia and
death, including H5N1, H7N9, H7N2, H7N7, H9N2, H10N8, and H3N2v viruses;
however, currently only H5N1 and H7N9 cause severe illness in a high
proportion of cases and have been reported in substantial numbers.

2 Limited data are available regarding the risk of transmission for novel
influenza A viruses; however, limited non-sustained person-to-person
transmission of H5N1 virus has been demonstrated only with close, _prolonged,_
unprotected exposure to a symptomatic H5N1 patient either at home or in a
hospital [6, 10, 11], and limited non-sustained person-to-person transmission
of H7N9 could not be excluded in some family clusters [7]. To define a close
contact, this document uses "within approximately 6 feet of an ill person" to
include the potential for transmission by large droplets or small particle
droplet nuclei within the vicinity of the patient. Three feet has often been
used by infection control professionals to define close contact and is based
on studies of respiratory virus infections; however, for practical purposes,
this distance may range up to 6 feet or more. The World Health Organization
defines close contact as "approximately 1 meter;" the U.S. Occupational Safety
and Health Administration uses "within 6 feet." For consistency with infection
control recommendations for healthcare settings, this document also defines
"within the room or care area of a novel influenza A patient" as close contact
for a health care provider or caregiver.

3 Exposure groups adapted from the stratification of risks for human H5N1
virus infection from the "World Health Organization Rapid Advice Guidelines on
pharmacological management of humans infected with avian influenza A (H5N1)
virus, 2006"
(http://www.who.int/influenza/resources/documents/pharmacological_management_h5n1_05_2006/enExternal)

4 Recommendations for special situations (e.g., travelers potentially exposed
to novel influenza A viruses during air travel) will be made in the setting of
specific contact investigation protocols.

5 Oral oseltamivir is approved by the FDA for treatment of acute uncomplicated
influenza with twice-daily dosing in persons 14 days old, and for prophylaxis
with once-daily dosing in persons 1 year and older. Although use of oral
oseltamivir for treatment of influenza in infants less than ≥ 14 days old, and
for prophylaxis in infants less than 1 year of age, are not part of the FDA-
approved indications, these uses are recommended by the CDC and the American
Academy of Pediatrics. Inhaled zanamivir is approved for treatment of acute
uncomplicated influenza with twice-daily dosing in persons aged 7 years and
older, and for prophylaxis with once-daily dosing in persons aged 5 years and
older. Because this guidance recommends chemoprophylaxis using the twice-daily
dosing studied in clinical trials of influenza treatment rather than the once-
daily dosing studied in clinical trials supporting approval for influenza
prophylaxis, it is recommended that inhaled zanamivir be used only in persons
aged 7 years and older.

 Top of Page

**Table**. Follow-up and chemoprophylaxis recommendations according to the
case definition category for human infection with novel influenza A viruses
associated with severe disease. (See H7N9 case definitions and H5N1 case
definitions.)

#### Case category of Exposure

#### Definition

#### Management of Close Contacts1

#### Case category of Exposure

**Confirmed Case**

#### Definition

Novel influenza A virus infection in a patient that is confirmed by CDC's
Influenza Laboratory or a CDC certified public health laboratory using methods
agreed upon by the CDC and the Council of State and Territorial
Epidemiologists. Confirmation of novel influenza A viruses may be made by
public health laboratories following CDC-approved protocols for detection of
novel influenza A viruses, or by laboratories using an FDA-authorized test
specific for detection of novel influenza A viruses.

#### Management of Close Contacts1

Monitor for fever and respiratory symptoms;  
Consider antiviral chemoprophylaxis based on risk of exposure2

#### Case category of Exposure

**Probable case**

#### Definition

Illness compatible with influenza in a patient meeting any of the exposure
criteria below and for whom laboratory diagnostic testing is positive for
influenza A, negative for H1, negative for H1pdm09, and negative for H3 by
real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and
therefore unsubtypeable.

#### Management of Close Contacts1

Monitor for fever and respiratory symptoms;  
Consider antiviral chemoprophylaxis based on risk of exposure2

#### Case category of Exposure

**Case under investigation**

#### Definition

Illness compatible with influenza in a patient meeting any of the exposure
criteria below and for whom laboratory confirmation is not known or pending or
for whom test results do not provide a sufficient level of detail to confirm
novel influenza A virus infection.

#### Management of Close Contacts1

#### Case category of Exposure

**Exposed during travel**

#### Definition

Patients with recent travel (within <10 days of illness onset) to areas where
human cases of novel influenza A virus infection have become infected or to
areas where novel influenza A viruses are known to be circulating in animals.3

#### Management of Close Contacts1

Monitor for fever and respiratory symptoms

#### Case category of Exposure

**Exposed to confirmed or probable case**

#### Definition

Patients who have had recent close contact (within <10 days of illness onset)
with confirmed or suspected4 cases of human infection with novel influenza A
virus. Close contact may be regarded as coming within about 6 feet (2 meters)
of a confirmed case while the case was ill (beginning 1 day prior to illness
onset and continuing until resolution of illness). This includes healthcare
personnel providing care for a confirmed case, family members of a confirmed
case, persons who lived with or stayed overnight with a confirmed case, and
others who have had similar close physical contact.5

#### Management of Close Contacts1

Monitor for fever and respiratory symptoms

**1 For specific dosage recommendations for chemoprophylaxis by age group,
please see https://www.cdc.gov/flu/professionals/antivirals/antiviral-
dosage.htm.**  
**2 Among close contacts: (1) Highest-risk exposure groups (recognized risk of
transmission): Household or close family member contacts of a confirmed or
probable case. (2) Moderate-risk exposure groups (unknown risk of
transmission): Health care personnel with unprotected contact with a confirmed
or probable case . (3) Low-risk exposure groups (transmission unlikely):
Others who have had social contact of a short duration with a confirmed or
probable case in a non-hospital setting (e.g., in a community or workplace
environment)**  
**3 As of March 19, 2015, China was the only country where avian influenza A
(H7N9) viruses were known to be circulating in animals (poultry) or where
human cases have become infected. For avian influenza A (H5N1) virus, please
see WHO website.
http://www.who.int/influenza/human_animal_interface/EN_GIP_20131210CumulativeNumberH5N1cases.pdf
[39 KB, 2 pages] and link to countries with animal cases. For more
information, including updates on countries affected, please see the CDC
Novel/Avian Influenza A Virus Home Page.**  
**4 Patients suspected of having infection with a novel influenza A virus can
include probable cases, cases under investigation for infection with novel
influenza A virus, and other patients for whom available clinical and
epidemiologic information support a diagnosis of infection with novel
influenza A virus.**  
**5 Limited non-sustained person-to-person transmission of H7N9 virus could
not be excluded in some family clusters [7] . Limited non-sustained person-to-
person transmission of H5N1 virus has been reported in several countries
following close, prolonged unprotectedcontact with a severely ill H5N1
patient, including in household and hospital settings [6, 10, 11] .**

Top of Page

### References

1\. Human cases of avian influenza A (H5N1) in North-West Frontier Province,
Pakistan, October-November 2007. Releve epidemiologique hebdomadaire / Section
d'hygiene du Secretariat de la Societe des Nations = Weekly epidemiological
record / Health Section of the Secretariat of the League of Nations 2008;
83(40): 359-64.

2\. Areechokchai D, Jiraphongsa C, Laosiritaworn Y, et al. Investigation of
avian influenza (H5N1) outbreak in humans-Thailand, 2004. MMWR Morbidity and
mortality weekly report 2006; 55 Suppl 1: 3-6.

3\. Chen Y, Liang W, Yang S, et al. Human infections with the emerging avian
influenza A H7N9 virus from wet market poultry: clinical analysis and
characterisation of viral genome. Lancet 2013; 381(9881): 1916-25.

4\. Dinh PN, Long HT, Tien NT, et al. Risk factors for human infection with
avian influenza A H5N1, Vietnam, 2004. Emerging infectious diseases 2006;
12(12): 1841-7.

5\. Huai Y, Xiang N, Zhou L, et al. Incubation period for human cases of avian
influenza A (H5N1) infection, China. Emerging infectious diseases 2008;
14(11): 1819-21.

6\. Kandun IN, Wibisono H, Sedyaningsih ER, et al. Three Indonesian clusters
of H5N1 virus infection in 2005. The New England journal of medicine 2006;
355(21): 2186-94.

7\. Li Q, Zhou L, Zhou M, et al. Epidemiology of human infections with avian
influenza A(H7N9) virus in China. The New England journal of medicine 2014;
370(6): 520-32.

8\. Oner AF, Bay A, Arslan S, et al. Avian influenza A (H5N1) infection in
eastern Turkey in 2006. The New England journal of medicine 2006; 355(21):
2179-85.

9\. Tran TH, Nguyen TL, Nguyen TD, et al. Avian influenza A (H5N1) in 10
patients in Vietnam. The New England journal of medicine 2004; 350(12):
1179-88.

10\. Ungchusak K, Auewarakul P, Dowell SF, et al. Probable person-to-person
transmission of avian influenza A (H5N1). The New England journal of medicine
2005; 352(4): 333-40.

11\. Wang H, Feng Z, Shu Y, et al. Probable limited person-to-person
transmission of highly pathogenic avian influenza A (H5N1) virus in China.
Lancet 2008; 371(9622): 1427-34.

12\. Writing Committee of the Second World Health Organization Consultation on
Clinical Aspects of Human Infection with Avian Influenza AV, Abdel-Ghafar AN,
Chotpitayasunondh T, et al. Update on avian influenza A (H5N1) virus infection
in humans. The New England journal of medicine 2008; 358(3): 261-73.

13\. Boltz DA, Rehg JE, McClaren J, Webster RG, Govorkova EA. Oseltamivir
prophylactic regimens prevent H5N1 influenza morbidity and mortality in a
ferret model. The Journal of infectious diseases 2008; 197(9): 1315-23.

14\. Centers for Disease C, Prevention. Oseltamivir-resistant 2009 pandemic
influenza A (H1N1) virus infection in two summer campers receiving
prophylaxis-North Carolina, 2009. MMWR Morbidity and mortality weekly report
2009; 58(35): 969-72.

15\. Baz M, Abed Y, Papenburg J, Bouhy X, Hamelin ME, Boivin G. Emergence of
oseltamivir-resistant pandemic H1N1 virus during prophylaxis. The New England
journal of medicine 2009; 361(23): 2296-7.

16\. Cane A, Casanueva E, Iolster T, et al. First isolation of a oseltamivir-
resistant influenza A (H1N1) strain in Argentina. The Pediatric infectious
disease journal 2010; 29(4): 384.

17\. Hu Y, Lu S, Song Z, et al. Association between adverse clinical outcome
in human disease caused by novel influenza A H7N9 virus and sustained viral
shedding and emergence of antiviral resistance. Lancet 2013; 381(9885):
2273-9.

Page last reviewed: April 7, 2015

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)

home Avian Flu

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bird Flu Basics expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Avian Influenza Type A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bird Flu in Birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bird Flu in People expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Spread of Bird Flu Viruses Between Animals and People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Examples of Human Infections with Avian Influenza A Viruses with Possible Limited, Non-Sustained Human-to-Human Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevention and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Information for Specific Groups expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Information for People Exposed to Birds Infected with Avian Influenza Viruses of Public Health Concern
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Recommendations for Worker Protection and Use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Self-Observation Instructions for Demobilizing Bird Flu Responders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Current Situation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specific Avian Flu Viruses expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Avian Influenza Type A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Asian Avian Influenza A (H5N1) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H5N1 in Birds and Other Animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H5N1 in People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Public Health Threat of Highly Pathogenic Asian Avian Influenza A (H5N1) Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H5N1 Genetic Changes Inventory expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Inventory Preamble
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Inventory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Questions & Answers: H5N1 Genetic Change Inventory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HPAI A H5 Virus Background and Clinical Illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Asian Lineage Avian Influenza A (H7N9) Virus expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * H7N9 Images
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pandemic Response Planning Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * North American Lineage AI Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Outbreaks expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * H5 Viruses in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * U.S. H5 outbreaks in 2014-2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * U.S. H7N8 in 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * U.S. H7N2 in cats in 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Care & Laboratorian Guidance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Case Definitions expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * U.S. H5 Virus Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Asian H5N1 Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Asian H7N9 Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Testing, Reporting & Lab Information expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specimen Collection and Testing for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses with Potential to Cause Severe Disease in Humans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specimen Collection and Testing for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease in Humans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diagnostics for Detecting H7N9 Using rRT-PCR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC and USDA: Interim Risk Assessment and Biosafety Level Recommendations for Working with Influenza A (H7N9) Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Infection Control Within Healthcare Settings for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Treatment and Prophylaxis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * For Clinicians: Evaluating and Managing Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Use of Antiviral Medications for Treatment of Human Infections with Novel Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Antiviral Chemoprophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds with Avian Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Follow-up of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses and Use of Antiviral Chemoprophylaxis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What CDC Does expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Risk Assessment & Research expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Researching the Virus 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Dual Use Research of Concern
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Preparedness and Response expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Making a Candidate Vaccine Virus 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avian Influenza Related Links
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * News & Spotlights

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![1918 Pandemic flu commemoration website.](/flu/images/pandemic-1918-flu.jpg)



Influenza Types

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Seasonal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Swine/Variant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Influenza in Animals

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

