https://www.cdc.gov/flu/avianflu/avian-durc-qa.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/flu/avianflu/avian-durc-qa.htm    
                Description: Everything you need to know about the flu illness, including symptoms, treatment and prevention.    
                Keywords: influenza,  flu,  spanish flu,  avian flu,  asian flu,  influenza-like illness,  ILI,  influenza a,  influenza b,  influenza c,  influenza activity,  influenza branch,  influenza pandemic,  influenza epidemic,  flu vaccine,  flu shot,  antiviral,  antiviral drug,  antiviral medications,  antiviral agents,  influenza surveillance,  strain selection,  hong kong flu,  swine flu,  hemagglutinin,  neuraminidase,  respiratory illness,  guillain barre syndrome,  stomach flu,  influenza summary update,  amantadine,  rimantadine,  zanamivir,  oseltamivir,  influenza prevention,  influenza control,  negative rna strand virus,  antigenic drift,  antigenic shift,  CDC, Influenza Vaccination, Influenza (Flu), Pandemic Flu, Seasonal Flu, H1N1 Flu, Swine Influenza    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Influenza (Flu)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Dual Use Research of Concern and Bird Flu: Questions & Answers

EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What agents, toxins and categories of research experiments fall under the category of "DURC?"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Why are highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) viruses considered a select agent?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What was the voluntary moratorium on laboratory research specific to the highly pathogenic A(H5N1) bird flu virus and what is the government's current stance on this research?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What is the HHS P3CO Framework and what kinds of research does it provide guidance for?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What is "gain of function (GOF)" bird flu research?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What is the public health justification for engaging in bird flu research that falls into the categories of DURC, GOF or enhanced PPP?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Is CDC conducting any DURC or enhanced PPP research on bird flu viruses?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Does CDC currently conduct gain of function research on bird flu viruses?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Has CDC done "gain of function" research on highly pathogenic avian influenza A(H5N1) in the past?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * References

#### What agents, toxins and categories of research experiments fall under the
category of "DURC?"

There are 15 select agents and toxinsexternal icon and seven categories of
experiments on these select agents that fall under the subset of research
called DURC. These agents and toxins include the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Bacillus anthracis_ (anthrax),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Botulinum neurotoxin,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Burkholderia mallei_ ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Burkholderia pseudomallei_ ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola virus,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Foot-and-mouth disease virus,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * _Francisella tularensis_ ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Marburg virus,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reconstructed 1918 influenza virus,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Rinderpest virus,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toxin-producing strains of _clostridium botulinum_ ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Variola major (smallpox)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Variola minor viruses (smallpox),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * and _Yersinia pestis_.

Categories of research experiments that fall under DURC include those that do
the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. enhance the harmful consequences of the agent or toxin;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2. disrupt immunity or the effectiveness of an immunization against the agent or toxin without clinical and/or agricultural justification;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3. confer to the agent or toxin resistance to clinically and/or agricultural useful preventative or treatment interventions against that agent or toxin or facilitates their ability to evade methods of detection;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4. increase the stability, transmissibility, or the ability to disseminate the agent or toxin;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5. alters the host range or tropism of the agent or toxin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6. enhance the susceptibility of a host population to the agent or toxin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7. generate or reconstitute an eradicated or extinct agent or one of the 15 DURC toxins or agents

 Top of Page

#### Why are highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) viruses considered a
select agent?

Select agents are biological agents and toxins that have been determined to
have the potential to pose a severe threat to human or animal health, to plant
health, or to animal and plant products. Highly pathogenic avian influenza
(HPAI) viruses are "agricultural select agents" because of the danger they
pose to animal health, for example, U.S. poultry. HPAI viruses are not
considered select agents because of the danger they pose to human health.
Although human infections with certain HPAI viruses, such as Asian A(H5Nx) and
A(H7Nx), can lead to severe illness and death, human infections with these
viruses are generally rare, and HPAI viruses currently do not spread easily
from birds to humans or between humans.

#### What was the voluntary moratorium on laboratory research specific to the
highly pathogenic A(H5N1) bird flu virus and what is the government's current
stance on this research?

On January 20, 2012, a voluntary moratorium on laboratory research specific to
the highly pathogenic A(H5N1) bird flu virus was announced in a letter signed
by 39 international flu researchers. This moratorium, which was initially
expected to last 60 days, was not lifted until January 23, 2013, due to the
controversy surrounding the topic. This moratorium prompted the development of
the U.S. Government's DURC policyexternal icon, which was launched in March
2012. In October 2014, following publication of several controversial "gain of
function" (GOF) studies as well as several high-profile incidents in U.S.
biocontainment laboratories, the U.S. Government introduced another moratorium
on all U.S. funded GOF research on certain "potential pandemic pathogens"
(PPPs)pdf iconexternal icon, including influenza viruses, severe acute
respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS)
viruses.  On December 19, 2017, The U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS) lifted this 3-year moratorium. The lifting of this moratorium
allows certain types of U.S. government funded laboratory research studies
involving these pathogens to resume. The types of studies that now can be
conducted are governed by the HHS frameworkpdf iconexternal icon for guiding
funding decisions about research involving enhanced potential pandemic
pathogens, also known as the "HHS P3CO Framework," which also was released on
December 19, 2017.

#### What is the HHS P3CO Framework and what kinds of research does it provide
guidance for?

On December 19, 2017, U.S. Health and Human Services (HHS) launched a new
frameworkpdf iconexternal icon called the "Framework for Guiding Funding
Decisions about Proposed Research Involving Enhanced Potential Pandemic
Pathogens (PPP)."  HHS maintains a group of subject matter and policy experts
for PPP care and oversight (P3CO). This framework is intended to guide HHS
funding decisions on individual proposed research that is reasonably
anticipated to create, transfer, or use enhanced PPPspdf iconexternal icon.
The HHS P3CO framework is responsive to and in accordance with the
"Recommended Policy Guidance for Departmental Development of Review Mechanisms
for Potential Pandemic Pathogen Care and Oversightexternal icon" issued on
January 9, 2017, and it supercedes a prior framework called the "Framework for
Guiding Department of Health and Human Services Funding Decisions about
Research Proposals with the Potential for Generating Highly Pathogenic Avian
Influenza H5N1 viruses that are Transmissible among Mammals by Respiratory
Droplets." The HHS P3CO Framework ensures a multidisciplinary, department-
level pre-funding review and evaluation of proposed research meeting the scope
outlined in the document to help inform funding agency decisions. It strives
to obtain the benefits of life sciences research while minimizing potential
biosafety and biosecurity risks.

The HHS P3CO framework states that research involving PPPs is essential to
protecting global health and security; however, it acknowledges that there are
biosecurity risks associated with undertaking such research that must be
adequately considered and appropriately mitigated in order to help safely
realize the potential benefits.

The HHS P3CO Framework explains its scope and its definitions in an online
PDFpdf iconexternal icon.

#### What is "gain of function (GOF)" bird flu research?

Gain of function research is research that seeks to alter the functional
characteristics of a virus. Examples of gain of function research include
research that seeks to produce mutations in a virus that could allow it to
become more transmissible, infect a wider range of hosts, increase its disease
severity, or confer resistance to existing drugs, treatments or vaccines.

#### What is the public health justification for engaging in bird flu research
that falls into the categories of DURC, GOF or enhanced PPP?

Knowledge gained from DURC, GOF, and enhanced PPP studies offers many benefits
to the public. These studies support public health risk assessments that are
essential to prioritize the development of infection control and intervention
strategies such as antiviral drug treatment and vaccination and are essential
to improve our readiness before nature produces the next pandemic virus.

A primary purpose of this type of research is to identify genetic sequences
that exist or may emerge in flu viruses with the potential to cause a
pandemic. Information from these studies is critical to the implementation of
effective global surveillance strategies so that high-risk genetic signatures
can be quickly identified in emerging viruses, providing early warning of a
pandemic threat.

DURC, GOF, and enhanced PPP studies are also essential to identify and confirm
that a given mutation confers a functional change to the flu virus.
Understanding the functional mechanisms affected by key genetic sequences
offers the opportunity to exploit viral processes for antiviral drug
development. Flu viruses evolve quickly and have the potential to acquire
resistance to currently available antiviral drugs, which would leave
clinicians with limited options to treat patients.

The best way to control flu virus infections is by vaccination using safe and
effective vaccines. Current flu vaccine development requires a substantial lag
time between when a virus is first identified and when a vaccine can be
manufactured and distributed to the public. Proponents of GOF research hope to
overcome the time constraints of vaccine production by preparing and
manufacturing flu vaccines in advance before they emerge in nature. GOF
research is necessary to know which genetic characteristics to include in
vaccines for optimal shelf life and effectiveness for prevention of infection
and disease caused by the flu virus.

#### Is CDC conducting any DURC or enhanced PPP research on bird flu viruses?

During the period of the moratorium, CDC did not conduct DURC research on
highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) viruses. At this time, CDC is
evaluating the need to conduct DURC and/or enhanced PPP studies on a case by
case basis. Before CDC conducts studies on HPAI viruses, regardless of whether
they fall into the DURC or enhanced PPP categories, a proposal for conducting
the studies is first submitted to CDC's Institutional Biosecurity Board (IBB).
The IBB determines whether the study falls into the category of DURC or
enhanced PPP or not. If the IBB determines that the proposed laboratory study
falls into the category of DURC and potentially enhanced PPP, it will
determine if additional HHS P3CO review is required before the study can be
conducted. CDC's research involving HPAI is conducted to inform risk
assessments of novel flu viruses.

#### Does CDC currently conduct gain of function research on bird flu viruses?

During the period of the moratorium, CDC did not conduct "gain of function"
research on bird flu viruses.  Now that the moratorium has been lifted, CDC
will determine whether to conduct "gain of function" research on bird flu
viruses on a case by case basis. See the question entitled "Is CDC conducting
any DURC or enhanced PPP research on bird flu viruses?" for a basic
description of this process. Proposals for studies potentially involving "gain
of function" research must first be approved by CDC's internal IBB, which will
determine if the studies warrant further review by the HHS P3CO frameworkpdf
iconexternal icon. This review process will determine whether the research is
safe to conduct, whether it should be conducted, and what biosafety
precautions and practices are required to conduct the work.

#### Has CDC done "gain of function" research on highly pathogenic avian
influenza A(H5N1) in the past?

Yes. CDC has conducted "gain of function" research in the past on HPAI viruses
as part of pandemic preparedness efforts. For example, in 2006 CDC conducted
an experiment that sought to understand how Asian A(H5N1) bird flu viruses
might become more transmissible in mammals (1). The study assessed the ability
of highly pathogenic Asian A(H5N1) bird flu viruses to mix with human flu
viruses through a process called "reassortment" that can occur in nature.
Reassortment can result in the creation of new flu viruses with pandemic
potential. This work was performed in BSL-3 enhanced laboratory facilities.
Although CDC researchers were able to successfully create new flu viruses that
shared genes from both Asian A(H5N1) bird flu and human flu viruses, the
resulting viruses appeared to lack the molecular and biologic properties
needed for efficient spread. The results suggested that these A(H5N1) bird flu
viruses required further genetic change to gain the properties needed to cause
a human pandemic.

A similar study was conducted in 2009 that conducted a health risk assessment
of the ability of human seasonal A(H3N2) flu viruses to mix with certain
A(H5N1) bird flu viruses in a laboratory setting (2). This study concluded
that continued exposure of humans and animals to both A(H5N1) bird flu viruses
and A(H3N2) seasonal viruses increased the risk of producing new H5 viruses
that could produce infectious secretions in the upper airways of mammals.

Other CDC GOF studies on Asian A(H5N1) viruses included looking at how
mutations to the surface proteins of the virus could affect the "receptor
binding preference" of these viruses (3). The receptor binding preference
determines the hosts that a flu virus is best suited to infecting, such as
birds as opposed to mammals. Results from this study found that mutations that
changed the receptor binding preference from birds to humans also tended to
reduce the virus' ability to replicate (i.e., make copies of itself for the
purpose of spreading infection.) The authors concluded that alternative
molecular changes would be needed for these A(H5N1) viruses to fully adapt to
humans and be capable of causing a pandemic.

Another such study examined in a laboratory environment evolutionary changes
that would need to occur for the receptor binding preference of specific Asian
A(H5N1) viruses to change so that they would be better suited to infecting and
causing illness in people as opposed to birds (4). This study concluded that
extensive evolution of existing A(H5N1) viruses at that time would need to
occur before these they could become fully transmissible in humans. Other
scientists have conducted gain-of-function research on Asian A(H5N1) viruses
and identified molecular changes that increase the ability of those viruses to
transmit in mammals via infectious respiratory droplets.

### References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. Maines TR, Chen LM, Matsuoka Y et al. Lack of transmission of H5N1 avian-human reassortant influenza viruses in a ferret model. _PNAS_. 2006. 103(32); 12121-12126Externalexternal icon.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2. Jackson S, Van Hoeven N, Chen LM et al. Reassortment between avian H5N1 and human H3N2 influenza viruses in fetters: a public health risk assessment. J. Virol. 2009. 83(16):8131-40.Externalexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3. Maines TR, Chen LM, Van Hoeven N, Tumpey TM, et al. Effect of receptor binding domain mutations on receptor binding and transmissibility of avian influenza H5N1 viruses. _Virology_ 2011\. 413:139-147.Externalexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4. Chen LM, Blixt O, Stevens J, Lipatov AS, Davis CT, Collins BE, Cox NJ, Paulson JC, Donis RO. 2012. In vitro evolution of H5N1 avian influenza virus toward human-type receptor specificity. _Virology_ 422:105-113Externalexternal icon.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: May 13, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD)

home Avian Flu

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bird Flu Basics expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Avian Influenza Type A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bird Flu in Birds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bird Flu in People expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Spread of Bird Flu Viruses Between Animals and People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Examples of Human Infections with Avian Influenza A Viruses with Possible Limited, Non-Sustained Human-to-Human Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Prevention and Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Information for Specific Groups expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Information for People Exposed to Birds Infected with Avian Influenza Viruses of Public Health Concern
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Recommendations for Worker Protection and Use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Self-Observation Instructions for Demobilizing Bird Flu Responders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Current Situation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specific Avian Flu Viruses expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Avian Influenza Type A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Asian Avian Influenza A (H5N1) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H5N1 in Birds and Other Animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H5N1 in People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Public Health Threat of Highly Pathogenic Asian Avian Influenza A (H5N1) Virus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * H5N1 Genetic Changes Inventory expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Inventory Preamble
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Inventory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Questions & Answers: H5N1 Genetic Change Inventory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HPAI A H5 Virus Background and Clinical Illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Asian Lineage Avian Influenza A (H7N9) Virus expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     * H7N9 Images
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Publications & Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pandemic Response Planning Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * North American Lineage AI Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Past Outbreaks expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * H5 Viruses in the United States
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * U.S. H5 outbreaks in 2014-2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * U.S. H7N8 in 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * U.S. H7N2 in cats in 2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Care & Laboratorian Guidance expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Case Definitions expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * U.S. H5 Virus Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Asian H5N1 Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Asian H7N9 Case Definitions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Testing, Reporting & Lab Information expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specimen Collection and Testing for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses with Potential to Cause Severe Disease in Humans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specimen Collection and Testing for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses Associated with Severe Disease in Humans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Diagnostics for Detecting H7N9 Using rRT-PCR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC and USDA: Interim Risk Assessment and Biosafety Level Recommendations for Working with Influenza A (H7N9) Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Infection Control Within Healthcare Settings for Patients with Novel Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Treatment and Prophylaxis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * For Clinicians: Evaluating and Managing Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Use of Antiviral Medications for Treatment of Human Infections with Novel Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Antiviral Chemoprophylaxis of Persons Exposed to Birds with Avian Influenza A Viruses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Follow-up of Close Contacts of Persons Infected with Novel Influenza A Viruses and Use of Antiviral Chemoprophylaxis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * What CDC Does expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Risk Assessment & Research expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Researching the Virus 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Dual Use Research of Concern
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Preparedness and Response expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Making a Candidate Vaccine Virus 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avian Influenza Related Links
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * News & Spotlights

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

![1918 Pandemic flu commemoration website.](/flu/images/pandemic-1918-flu.jpg)



Influenza Types

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Seasonal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Avian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Swine/Variant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pandemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Influenza in Animals

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

