https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/ocas/ocasabt.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/ocas/ocasabt.html    
                Description: DCAS is primarily responsible for estimating work related radiation exposure (dose reconstruction) for certain workers with cancer who filed claims under Part B of the Act    
                Keywords: radiation dose reconstruction,  ocas,  dcas,  responsibilities special exposure cohort,  probability of causation,  residual contamination, Workplace Wellness &amp; Safety    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search __ Search Icon Close Icon

Ã NIOSH

NIOSH All CDC

Submit __

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

NIOSH Radiation Dose Reconstruction Program

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

![NIOSH logo and tagline](/niosh/images/si-no-left-vp4.png)

# About DCAS

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Responsibilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Dose Reconstruction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Probability of Causation and NIOSH-IREP 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Special Exposure Cohort
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Residual Contamination

### History

On December 7, 2000, the President issued Executive Order 13179 (65 FR 77487)
pdf icon[180 KB (4 pages)] which assigned responsibilities to the Department
of Labor (DOL), Department of Energy (DOE), and Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS), for the management and implementation of the Energy Employees
Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000 (EEOICPA or The Act).

The responsibility for overseeing the radiation dose reconstruction portion of
the program was delegated to HHS. HHS enlisted support from one of its
agencies, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH).

In 2001, NIOSH established the Office of Compensation Analysis and Support
(OCAS). OCAS became the Division of Compensation Analysis and Support (DCAS)
in 2010. The name change reflects the conversion of OCAS from an Office to a
NIOSH Division. This action was part of an ongoing project to reduce the size
of the NIOSH Office of the Director (OD), which is one of the goals of an OD
Management Review begun in September of 2009.

### Responsibilities

DCAS is primarily responsible for estimating work related radiation exposure
(dose reconstruction) for certain workers with cancer who filed claims under
Part B of the Act. Part B is a portion of the Act that provides compensation
of $150,000 and medical benefits to employees (or their survivors) for illness
caused by exposure to radiation, beryllium, and silica during their employment
at DOE, its contractor, or subcontractor facilities.

DCAS is responsible for:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Developing methods to estimate worker exposure to radiation (Dose Reconstruction),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Developing scientific guidelines to determine the likelihood that an employee's cancer is related to their occupational exposure to ionizing radiation (Probability of Causation),
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Establishing a process for adding classes of employees to the Special Exposure Cohort (SEC), and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Providing staff support for an independent Advisory Board (Advisory Board on Radiation and Worker Health).

In response to amendments to the Act, DCAS also developed and updated a Report
on Residual Radioactive and Beryllium Contamination at Atomic Weapons Employer
(AWE) Facilities and Beryllium Vendor Facilities.

More information on our responsibilities under the Act can be found on the
Responsibilities under the Act (Advisory Board, Agency, and Contractor) page
of our website.

### Dose Reconstruction

After a claim is filed under the Act, DOL determines if the employee worked at
a covered facility during a covered time period and has a qualifying health
condition. If the health condition in the claim is cancer, DOL sends the case
to DCAS for dose reconstruction. Dose reconstruction is the scientific process
of estimating a worker's past exposure to radiation. The basic principle of
dose reconstruction is to characterize the occupational radiation environment
workers were exposed to using available worker and/or workplace monitoring
information. Dose reconstruction requires extensive reviews, evaluations, and
assessments of the dose on an individual case basis. Although some dose
reconstructions are straightforward, others are complex due to (1) missing,
non-interpretable, or incomplete records; (2) a variety of exposure
conditions; and/or (3) variable work assignments.

DCAS uses various dose reconstruction techniques to account for these factors,
depending on the nature of the exposure conditions and the type, quality, and
completeness of data available to characterize the environment. DCAS evaluates
all appropriate worker and workplace radiation monitoring data needed to
complete dose reconstructions. To retrieve workers' individual monitoring
data, DCAS sends requests to DOE. Although personal monitoring data is
preferred, sometimes this data is unavailable, incomplete, or of poor quality.
When necessary, DCAS conducts data search and capture activities to locate
additional information. Interviews with current and former workers are also
sometimes used to better understand a facility's operations and radiation
monitoring practices.

Technical documents called Site Profiles (describe a specific work site),
Technical Basis Documents (focus on a specific aspect of the work site), and
Technical Information Bulletins (focus on specific technical issues or
procedures for estimating radiation exposure) are also used to ensure that
doses are reconstructed in a uniform and scientifically defensible manner.
Claimants have an opportunity to participate in a phone call to discuss the
energy employee's work history. In cases where radiation exposures in the
workplace environment cannot be fully characterized based on available data,
default values based on reasonable scientific assumptions are used as
substitutes. DCAS' dose reconstruction methods consistently give the benefit
of the doubt to the claimant whenever there is a question or uncertainty about
the amount of radiation exposure the worker may have received.

To ensure that the methods and guidelines used in dose reconstruction by DCAS
are as sound as possible, an independent Advisory Board reviews and comments
on the validity and quality of DCAS dose reconstructions and methods and
technical documents.

More information on dose reconstructions can be found on the main Dose
Reconstruction and FAQs: Dose Reconstruction pages of our website.

### Probability of Causation and NIOSH-IREP

DCAS returns the case to DOL when the dose reconstruction is completed. DOL
uses the energy employee's personal characteristics, employment, medical
information, and dose reconstruction results developed by NIOSH to calculate
the probability or likelihood that the cancer or cancers were related to
workplace exposure to radiation. If the probability of causation, at the 99%
confidence interval, is 50% or greater, the claimant(s) receives compensation
of $150,000 and any medical costs associated with the cancer since the time
the claim was filed.

DOL uses a computer software application NIOSH developed in collaboration with
the National Cancer Institute, called the Interactive RadioEpidemiological
Program (NIOSH-IREP) to calculate the probability a cancer was caused by a
person's radiation dose. DCAS is responsible for maintaining and updating the
NIOSH-IREP software and the scientific elements (cancer risk models) that it
uses. The NIOSH-IREP software is available for anyone to use on the DCAS
public website.

More information on probability of causation can be found on the main
Probability of Causation and FAQs: Probability of Causation pages on our web
site.

### Special Exposure Cohort (SEC)

Employees who are members of the SEC that was established by the Act are
compensated without the completion of a radiation dose reconstruction or
determination of the probability of causation. To qualify for compensation as
a member of the SEC, an employee must meet specific requirements (e.g., must
have at least one of 22 "specified cancers," and have worked for a specified
time period at one of the SEC sites). Congress also allowed for additional
classes of employees to be added to the SEC. Classes of employees and work
sites are considered for addition to the SEC through a petition process. DCAS
developed regulations that establish the procedures for adding classes of
employees to the SEC.

DCAS' role in the SEC petition process is to receive and evaluate SEC
petitions, determine whether the petitions meet the minimum requirements for
review and evaluation, and provide a report on the SEC petition evaluation to
the Board and petitioners. The Board makes recommendations concerning
additions to the SEC to the Secretary, HHS, and the Secretary considers this
advice in making her decisions. DCAS posts petition information on the DCAS
public website. DCAS' SEC Petition Counselor and a NIOSH Ombudsman provide
advice to those who wish to submit an SEC petition. DCAS also conducts
outreach meetings and workshops for claimants, advocates, consultants, and the
public in order to promote a better understanding of the SEC petition process.

More information on the SEC can be found on the main Special Exposure Cohort
(SEC) and FAQs: Special Exposure Cohort (SEC) pages of our website.

### Residual Contamination

Residual contamination is radioactive material or beryllium that remains at a
work site after activities related to nuclear weapons production have stopped.
If NIOSH identifies a facility as having residual radioactive contamination,
employees (or their survivors) who worked at that facility during the period
of residual contamination become eligible to file a claim under the Act, even
if they did not work during the covered period. Radiation doses from residual
contamination are usually much lower than those received during the covered
period.

The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002 (Pub. L.107-107;
Section 3151(b)) required that NIOSH submit, with the cooperation of the
Department of Labor and Department of Energy, a report on whether or not
significant contamination remained in any atomic weapons employer facility or
facility of a beryllium vendor after the facility discontinued nuclear weapon
production activities. NIOSH defines significant contamination as
contamination in excess of those found in current occupational radiation
protection, surface contamination values.

NIOSH issued the original report, "Report on Residual Radioactive and
Beryllium Contamination at Atomic Weapons Employer Facilities and Beryllium
Vendor Facilities," in November 2002 and updated the report in October 2003.
The Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005
(Pub. L. 108-375; Section 3169) required that NIOSH submit an additional
update to the report in December 2006. The report was updated again by NIOSH
in October 2009 and August 2011.

More information on residual contamination can be found on the FAQs: Residual
Contamination page on our website.

NIOSH Division of Compensation Analysis and Support (DCAS) Fact Sheet  DHHS
(NIOSH) Publication No. 2018-136

Page last reviewed: September 28, 2015

Content source: National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health

home Radiation Dose Reconstruction

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About DCAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Act/EEOICPA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Dose Reconstruction (DR) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Individual Claim Status
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Overall Case Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Data expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Formats & Types
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sensitive Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Work History  
Phone Call

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data Search and Capture Efforts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Production
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Technical Documents Used in Dose Reconstructions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Program Evaluation Reports and Plans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Quality Assurance and Quality Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Support Contractor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Software (IMBA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RECA Claims
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Probability of Causation expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Calculating PC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * News & Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * NIOSH-IREP Software
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Special Exposure Cohort expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Submit a Petition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Check Petition Status expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * SEC Status Table
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Get Help
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Residual Contamination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advisory Board expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Public Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Subcommittee and Work Groups
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * SEC Petition Recommendations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Technical Support for the Review of NIOSH Dose Reconstruction Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Reports from the Advisory Boardâs Technical Support Contractor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Technical Review Summaries from the Technical Support Contractor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Procedures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Correspondence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Work Site Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Publications & Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Program Reviews
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reports to Congress
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies, Procedures, and Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NIOSH Public Docket
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Related Program Links
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * HELP expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * A-Z Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Accessibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Acronyms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Case Concerns
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Claimant Correspondence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Conflict or Bias
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Dose Reconstruction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * National Defense Authorization Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * NIOSH-IREP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Probability of Causation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Residual Contamination Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Responsibilities under Subtitle B of EEOICPA (The Act)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Special Exposure Cohort
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Technical Documents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Work History Phone Call
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Glossary

#### Follow NIOSH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * fb Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * pinterest Pinterest
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * twitter Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * youtube YouTube

#### NIOSH Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NIOSH A-Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Workplace Safety & Health Topics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Publications and Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact NIOSH

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

