https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/about/strategicplan/servicegoals.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/about/strategicplan/servicegoals.html    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: NIOSH,  Workplace Safety &amp; Health,  Occupational Safety &amp; Health,  National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Workplace Wellness &amp; Safety    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search __ Search Icon Close Icon

Ã NIOSH

NIOSH All CDC

Submit __

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

![NIOSH logo and tagline](/niosh/images/si-no-left-vp4.png)

# Service Goals

Minus

Related Pages

Service activities contribute to the NIOSH mission by providing a service to
individuals and organizations outside of NIOSH, support internally to NIOSH
staff, or a combination of the two. Some services are mandated by law.
Services can support a single sector or cross-sector (e.g. the Coal Workers'
Health Surveillance Program benefits the mining sector), while others are
crosscutting (e.g. FACE investigates fatalities in a wide range of industries
with a variety of causes). NIOSH provides the following service work:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Respirator approvals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Hazard Evaluations (HHE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Radiation dose reconstruction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Emergency preparedness and response activities, except Disaster Science Responder Research (DSRR) activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Global collaborations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Coal Workers' Health Surveillance Program activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * B-Reader certification

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Spirometry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * MINER Act activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fatality Assessment and Control Evaluation (FACE) activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fire Fighter Fatality Investigation and Prevention (FFFIP) activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Injury and illness surveillance (but not surveillance research)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Information and dissemination activities, including the NIOSH website and NIOSHTIC-2 publications database

Service Intermediate Goals

Intermediate goals identify improvements and maintenance of service activities
that allow organizations or individuals to take action more easily or quickly.
In some cases, NIOSH's stakeholders are able to take direct action to improve
occupational safety and health, such as the employers who receive HHE reports.
In other instances, service is less direct. For example, the NIOSH web team
might provide support to NIOSH staff, who are then able to post new
information online that will help external stakeholders take action.  
Intermediate goals can support more than one strategic goal. Focused service
activities may flow from only one strategic goal, but others might support a
broad range of occupational safety and health activities and flow from several
strategic goals, or even all seven.

Service Activity Goals

Activity goals are statements of activities that improve or maintain the
timeliness, relevance, and quality of services. If improvements are not
possible, programs establish goals around maintaining high quality service
functions.

Surveillance Program

Supports Strategic Goals 1-7

**Intermediate Goal [SS] 1.1** NIOSH sector and cross-sector programs and
external stakeholders use NIOSH surveillance data and information products to
identify, monitor, and evaluate occupational safety and health hazards and
work-related health outcomes, reduce occupational illnesses and injuries and
control hazards, and promote well-being among workers.

**Activity Goal [SS] 1.1.1** The surveillance program will maintain and
enhance the quality and timeliness of ongoing NIOSH-based or NIOSH-enhanced
surveillance systems that provide data on the burden of hazards, illness, and
injuries among workers and the impact of interventions. These include, but are
not limited to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adult Blood Lead Epidemiology and Surveillance (ABLES)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * State-Based Surveillance of Work-Related Asthma (WRA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Occupational Hearing Loss (OHL) Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (Industry and Occupation module)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Commercial Fishing Incident Database
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Coal Workers' Health Surveillance Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fatality Assessment and Control Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Firefighter Fatality Investigation and Prevention Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fatalities in Oil and Gas Extraction (FOG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NEISS-Work: National Electronic Injury Surveillance System--Occupational Supplement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * National Occupational Mortality Surveillance (NOMS)/ National Occupational Respiratory Mortality System (NORMS)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Occupational Health Safety Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sensor-Pesticides: Pesticides Illness and Injury Surveillance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * State-based Surveillance Silicosis Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NIOSH Center for Workers' Compensation Studies (CWCS)

**Activity Goal [SS] 1.1.2** The Surveillance Program will develop technology
to support and enhance ongoing and new NIOSH-based surveillance systems

**Activity Goal [SS] 1.1.3** The Surveillance Program will use traditional,
web-based, social media and newly emerging tools and resources to disseminate
occupational safety and health (OSH) surveillance data and make it easier to
access and use.

**Activity Goal [SS] 1.1.4** The Surveillance Program will encourage the
inclusion in information systems of standardized codes and narrative
information related to work to increase the understanding of relationships
between work and health.

**Activity Goal [SS] 1.1.5** The Surveillance Program will identify and
analyze new data sources to fill gaps in diseases, injuries, and exposures in
worker populations

MINER Act

**Strategic Goal 6** : Improve workplace safety to reduce traumatic injuries.

**Intermediate goal [SS] 2.1** : Industry (producers, workers, manufacturers,
suppliers), academia and other governmental agencies use NIOSH research
initiated under the MINER Act program to develop and implement workplace
solutions to reduce risk of mine disasters and improve the survivability of
mine workers.

**Activity Goal [SS] 2.1.1** : Identify critical health and safety technology
gaps in mining and solicit (through a BAA or RFP process), award and monitor
technology development and commercialization contracts to address these gaps.

**Activity Goal [SS] 2.1.2** : Solicit, award and monitor capacity-building
contracts to support tenure-track academic positions and graduate students
pursuing advanced degrees in the fields of underground mine ventilation and
ground control, with research specifically directed toward major workplace
health and safety challenges.

**Activity Goal [SS] 2.1.3** : Develop interagency relationships through
working groups and agreements to identify and utilize existing federal
capabilities and research that could be further developed to address health
and safety technology gaps in mining.

**Strategic Goal 2** : Reduce occupational hearing loss.

**Strategic Goal 4** : Reduce occupational musculoskeletal disorders.

**Strategic Goal 5** : Reduce occupational respiratory disease.

**Intermediate goal [SS] 2.2** : Industry (producers, workers, manufacturers,
suppliers), academia and other governmental agencies use NIOSH research
initiated under the MINER Act program to develop, adapt and implement new mine
safety technology and expedite its commercial availability.

**Activity Goal [SS] 2.2.1** : Identify critical health and safety technology
gaps in mining and solicit (through a BAA or RFP process), award and monitor
technology development and commercialization contracts to address these gaps.

**Activity Goal [SS] 2.2.2** : Solicit, award and monitor capacity-building
contracts to support tenure-track academic positions and graduate students
pursuing advanced degrees in the fields of underground mine ventilation and
ground control, with research specifically directed toward major workplace
health and safety challenges.

**Activity Goal [SS] 2.2.3** : Develop interagency relationships through
working groups and agreements to identify and utilize existing federal
capabilities and research that could be further developed to address health
and safety technology gaps in mining.

Respirator Approval Program

**Strategic Goal 1** : Reduce occupational cancer, cardiovascular disease,
adverse reproductive outcomes and other chronic diseases.

**Strategic Goal 3** : Reduce occupational immune, infectious and dermal
disease

**Strategic Goal 5** : Reduce occupational respiratory disease

**Intermediate Goal** [SS] 3.1 Users are able to select and use a variety of
respirators that meet NIOSH performance requirements.

**Activity Goal [SS] 3.1.1** NIOSH will help ensure the integrity of the
national supply of respirators by implementing an efficient, high quality
respirator approval process.

**Activity Goal [SS] 3.1.2** NIOSH will perform post market surveillance
activities (e.g., conduct audits and field investigations) to establish
corrective measures and inform user decisions on respirator selection (e.g.,
routine use, grant and stockpile decisions).

**Activity Goal [SS] 3.1.3** NIOSH will develop new or improved test systems
and methods to facilitate advancing respiratory protection.

**Activity Goal [SS] 3.1.4** NIOSH will work with partners to develop and
disseminate guidance, recommendations, outreach products and methods regarding
selection, use and maintenance of respirators.

Radiation Dose Evaluations

**Strategic Goal 1** : Reduce occupational cancer, cardiovascular disease,
adverse reproductive outcomes and other chronic diseases.

**Intermediate Goal [SS] 4.1** The Department of Labor and Secretary of HHS
use NIOSH dose reconstruction findings to fulfill claims and add new classes
to the Special Exposure Cohort, respectively.

**Activity Goal [SS] 4.1.1** Conduct timely, high quality radiation dose
reconstructions for Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program
Act (EEOCIPA) claimants or their survivors.

**Activity Goal [SS] 4.1.2** Conduct timely, high quality Special Exposure
Cohort (SEC) evaluations for EEOCIPA claimants or their survivors.

**Activity Goal [SS] 4.1.3** Respond to Advisory Board Review of site
profiles, procedure documents, and dose reconstructions to improve the
scientific quality of the program.

Coal Workers' Health Surveillance Program (CWHSP)

**Strategic Goal 5** : Reduce occupational respiratory disease

**Intermediate Goal [SS] 5.1** Coal miners learn about their respiratory
health status and are able to make informed choices to improve their personal
health outcomes. Industry, labor, policy makers, MSHA, academics, and others
with the ability to improve prevention use population level data from the
NIOSH Coal Workers' Health Surveillance Program to take actions with the
potential to reduce the burden of respiratory disease in coal miners.

**Activity Goal [SS] 5.1.1** : CWHSP will work with mine operators and medical
facilities to assure accessibility and high quality of surveillance services.

**Activity Goal [SS] 5.1.2** : CWHSP will conduct mobile outreach to enhance
participation in surveillance.

**Activity Goal [SS] 5.1.3** : CWHSP will provide timely and useful
individual-level information to coal miners about their test results and
population-level information describing the burden of respiratory disease to
the range of stakeholders interested in prevention.

B-Reader Certification Program

**Strategic Goal 5** : Reduce occupational respiratory disease

**Intermediate Goal [SS] 5.2** Workers, employers, and other stakeholders have
access to medical providers able to competently classify chest radiographs for
changes of pneumoconiosis using the International Labour Office (ILO) system.

**Activity Goal [SS] 5.2.1** : The B-Reader Certification Program will provide
physicians with opportunities to learn about ILO classification of chest
radiographs.

**Activity Goal [SS] 5.2.2** : The B-Reader Certification Program will provide
physicians with opportunities to document their ability to use ILO
classification through a certification examination.

**Activity Goal [SS] 5.2.3** : The B-Reader Certification Program will improve
training and certification testing in ILO classification of chest radiographs
through updates using current imaging technology and other efforts.

Spirometry Course Certification Program

**Strategic Goal 5** : Reduce occupational respiratory disease

**Intermediate Goal [SS] 5.3** Workers, employers, and other stakeholders have
access to spirometry technicians able to competently perform high quality
spirometry.

**Activity Goal [SS] 5.3.1** : The Spirometry Course Certification Program
will assist those seeking to provide NIOSH-approved spirometry training
courses in establishing and maintaining them.

**Activity Goal [SS] 5.3.2** : The Spirometry Course Certification Program
will periodically audit NIOSH-certified spirometry training courses to assure
that the training they provide is of high quality.

**Activity Goal [SS] 5.3.3** : The Spirometry Course Certification Program
will carry out a range of activities to promote high quality spirometry, for
example by providing current, evidence-based, informational materials
regarding current best-practice spirometry guidelines.

Health Hazard Evaluations (HHE)

Supports Strategic Goals 1-7

**Intermediate Goal [SS] 6.1** Stakeholders submit Health Hazard Evaluation
requests that meet the needs of vulnerable populations, address emerging
occupational health problems, and can have broad preventive impact.

**Activity Goal** **[SS] 6.1.1** The Health Hazard Evaluation Program will
reach out to health departments to increase awareness and use of its services.

**Activity Goal** **[SS] 6.1.2** The Health Hazard Evaluation Program will
reach out to employers, employees, and unions in selected industries to
increase awareness and use of its services.

**Intermediate Goal [SS] 6.2** Stakeholders implement recommendations at
workplaces evaluated through the Health Hazard Evaluation Program.

**Activity Goal** **[SS] 6.2.1** The Health Hazard Evaluation Program will
maintain its ability to ensure completion of timely, high quality evaluations.

**Activity Goal** **[SS] 6.2.2** The Health Hazard Evaluation Program will
evaluate and enhance its communication products to increase adoption of its
preventive recommendations.

**Activity Goal [SS] 6.2.3** The Health Hazard Evaluation Program will
continue to assess effectiveness and obtain feedback from employers,
employees, and unions at workplaces it evaluates through an ongoing,
systematic followback program.

**I** **ntermediate Goal [SS] 6.3** Stakeholders at workplaces not evaluated
by the Health Hazard Evaluation Program, and in agencies and organizations,
are aware of hazards found and actions recommended during Health Hazard
Evaluation Program activities.

**Activity Goal** **[SS] 6.3.1** The Health Hazard Evaluation Program will
maintain an up-to-date and user-friendly web page to share the outputs of its
activities.

**Activity Goal** **[SS] 6.3.2** The Health Hazard Evaluation Program will use
social media to reach a diverse set of stakeholders.

**Activity Goal** **[SS] 6.3.3** The Health Hazard Evaluation Program will
share information directly with agencies and organizations that develop
standards and guidelines.

**Intermediate Goal [SS] 6.4** Physicians, nurses, industrial hygienists, and
other professionals use HHE training and education to address workplace health
hazards from a public health perspective.

**Activity Goal** **[SS] 6.4.1** The Health Hazard Evaluation Program will
offer in-house and field training opportunities for occupational safety and
health professionals.

**Activity Goal** **[SS] 6.4.2** The Health Hazard Evaluation Program will
provide in-person and online instructional lectures developed from its
workplace evaluations.

Emergency Preparedness and Response Office

Supports Strategic Goals 1-7

**Intermediate Goal [SS] 7.1** Employers and federal, state and local
governments integrate occupational safety and health into planning and
preparedness activities for chemical, biological, radiological, and natural
events to protect workers.

**Activity Goal [SS] 7.1.1** EPRO will translate NIOSH knowledge into federal
response and recovery plans to protect workers.

**Activity Goa [SS] 7.1.2** EPRO will identify gaps in response knowledge and
facilitate opportunities to foster research to generate new knowledge to
improve health and safety.

**Activity Goal [SS] 7.1.3** EPRO will work to ensure NIOSH is prepared to
support responses through personnel and equipment readiness capabilities to
respond to events.

**Activity Goal [SS] 7.1.4** EPRO will conduct outreach to stakeholders to
increase awareness and use of Emergency Responder Health Monitoring and
Surveillance (ERHMS) system.

**Intermediate Goal [SS] 7.2** Employers and federal, state and local
governments integrate occupational safety and health into response and
recovery to chemical, biological, radiological, and natural events to protect
workers.

**Activity Goal [SS] 7.2.1** EPRO will translate NIOSH knowledge into event
specific guidance and other products to ensure health and safety of workers.

**Activity Goal [SS] 7.2.2** EPRO will provide timely response to stakeholders
requests for information during an event.

Global Collaborations

Supports Strategic Goals 1-7

**Intermediate Goal [SS] 8.1** Global partners have the capacity and expertise
needed to reduce occupational diseases, injuries and deaths in the U.S. and
globally.

**Activity Goal [SS] 8.1.1** The Global Collaborations Program will
participate in World Health Organization (WHO) efforts to improve capacity for
the global surveillance of occupational illness and injury.

**Activity Goal [SS] 8.1.2** NIOSH experts participate in Technical Committees
that produce international standards addressing a wide spectrum of workplace
issues, ranging from respirators to workplace air to silica exposure to
laboratory methods, to road safety.

**Activity Goal [SS] 8.1.3** The Global Collaborations Program acts as a WHO
occupational health collaborating center to enhance global occupational safety
and health.

**Activity Goal [SS] 8.1.4** NIOSH collaborates with WHO, Pan-American Health
Organization (PAHO) and other international entities to build capacity
building of primary care providers and training programs for healthcare
workers.

Fatality Assessment and Control Evaluation (FACE)

Strategic Goal 6: Improve workplace safety to reduce traumatic injuries

**Intermediate Goal [SS] 9.1** Employers implement recommendations in NIOSH
FACE reports to prevent similar deaths.

**Activity Goal [SS] 9.1.1** NIOSH FACE will provide law enforcement agencies
with recommendations to prevent motor vehicle related death to law enforcement
officers.

**Activity Goal [SS] 9.1.2** NIOSH FACE will provide employers recommendations
to prevent deaths caused by robots.

**Activity Goal [SS] 9.1.3** NIOSH FACE will provide employers recommendations
to prevent deaths identified through State FACE investigations.

Fire Fighter Fatality Investigation and Prevention Program (FFFIPP)

**Strategic Goal 6** : Improve workplace safety to reduce traumatic injuries

**Intermediate Goal [SS] 9.2** Fire Fighter stakeholders implement
recommendations in NIOSH FFFIPP reports to prevent fatalities.

**Activity Goal [SS] 9.2.1** NIOSH FFFIPP will provide recommendations to
prevent motor vehicle related death to firefighters.

**Activity Goal [SS] 9.2.2** NIOSH FFFIPP will provide the fire service with
recommendations to prevent deaths related to structural fires.

**Activity Goal [SS] 9.2.3** NIOSH FFFIPP will provide findings from fire
fighter fatality investigations to standard setting bodies to improve existing
fire service standards.

Health Communication and Web Service Goals

Supports Strategic Goals 1-7

**Intermediate Goal [SS] 10.1** A broad range of stakeholders are aware of and
utilize quality information generated by NIOSH.

**Activity Goal [SS] 10.1.1** NIOSH health communication and web teams will
translate NIOSH research creatively and effectively into quality educational
and technical scientific products for employers, workers, and others.

**Activity Goal [SS] 10.1.2** NIOSH health communication and web teams will
maintain and improve the dissemination of NIOSH information through timely,
relevant, quality postings to the NIOSH website.

**Activity Goal [SS] 10.1.3** NIOSH health communication teams will maintain
and improve the dissemination of NIOSH information through exhibits at
scientific meetings and conferences.

**Activity Goal [SS] 10.1.4**  NIOSHTIC-2, docket, and web teams will maintain
and improve the documentation and accessibility of NIOSH research and
information products in a bibliographic research database and provide a record
of policy development in the NIOSH docket.

**Activity Goal [SS] 10.1.5** NIOSH health communication and web teams will
maintain and improve the dissemination of NIOSH information through the
targeted use of social media and communication products.

**Activity Goal [SS] 10.1.6** NIOSH health communication teams will conduct
focused dissemination of NIOSH information directly to the public through the
response to public inquiries.

**Activity Goal [SS] 10.1.7** NIOSH health communication and web teams will
maintain and improve the evaluation of NIOSH educational and technical
scientific products to more effectively address the needs of internal and
external stakeholders

Workforce Development

NIOSH is mandated to provide an adequate supply of qualified personnel to
carry out the purposes of the Occupational Safety and Health Act. The NIOSH
funded Education and Research Centers (ERCs) and Training Project Grants
(TPGs) are the principal means for meeting this mandate through occupational
safety and health (OSH) workforce training, continuing education, regional
outreach.

Supports Strategic Goals 1-7

**Intermediate Goal [SS] 11.1** NIOSH-trained OSH personnel work in industry,
labor, academia and government to improve occupational health and safety for
the U.S. workforce.

**Activity Goal [SS] 11.1.1** NIOSH-supported ERCs and TPGs provide academic
training in accredited undergraduate and graduate degree programs, post-
doctoral and academic certificate training of personnel to advance the field
of OSH with new and dynamic approaches to reducing work-related injuries,
illnesses and fatalities.

**Activity Goal [SS] 11.1.2** NIOSH-supported ERCs and TPGs conduct regular
needs assessments to identify the OSH curriculum for core and closely related
disciplines that supports the competency needs of these professions.

**Activity Goal [SS] 11.1.3** NIOSH-supported ERCs and TPGs provide annual
report on their trainees' progress and career placement.

**Intermediate Goal [SS] 11.2** OSH professionals, practitioners, researchers
and workers improve workplace health and safety by applying knowledge gained
through NIOSH-funded continuing education programs for professionals,
practitioners, researchers and workers.

**Activity Goal [SS] 11.2.1** NIOSH-supported ERCs and TPGs develop and offer
needs-based continuing education programs using a variety of modalities,
including workshops, classroom instruction, online and other virtual teaching
methods to reach their targeted audience.

**Activity Goal [SS] 11.2.2** NIOSH-supported ERCs and TPGs conduct regular
needs assessments to identify topics, subject matter, course content, length
of training and teaching methods most appropriate for the continuing education
in the OSH professionals.

**Activity goal [SS] 11.2.3** NIOSH-supported ERCs and TPGs provide annual
reports on their continuing education program progress.

**Intermediate Goal [SS] 11.3** OSH professionals, workers and others apply
knowledge gained through NIOSH-funded ERC and TPG outreach programs to reduce
work-related injuries, illnesses and fatalities.

**Activity Goal [SS] 11.3.1** NIOSH-supported ERCs and TPGs offer outreach
programs that promote worker safety and health; reach vulnerable, underserved,
and underrepresented worker groups; and meet local, regional or national
workplace OSH needs.

**Activity Goal [SS] 11.3.2** NIOSH-supported ERCs and TPGs conduct regular
needs assessments to identify OSH outreach program needs among businesses,
community groups, agencies, or other institutions within the region.

**Activity Goal [SS] 11.3.3** NIOSH-supported ERCs and TPGs provide annual
reports on their OSH outreach program progress.

Page last reviewed: February 5, 2018

Content source: National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health

home NIOSH Strategic Plan: FYs 2019â2023

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * How the Plan was Developed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Research Goalsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 1 â Reduce occupational cancer, cardiovascular disease, adverse reproductive outcomes, and other chronic diseasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthcare and Social Assistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Manufacturing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mining
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Public Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Transportation, Warehousing, and Utilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 2 â Reduce occupational hearing lossplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Construction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Manufacturing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mining
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Oil and Gas Extraction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 3 â Reduce occupational immune, infectious, and dermal diseaseplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthcare and Social Assistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Manufacturing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Oil and Gas Extraction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Public Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 4 â Reduce occupational musculoskeletal disordersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Construction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthcare and Social Assistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Manufacturing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mining
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Wholesale and Retail Trade
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 5 â Reduce occupational respiratory diseaseplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Construction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthcare and Social Assistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Manufacturing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mining
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Oil and Gas Extraction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Public Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 6 â Improve workplace safety to reduce traumatic injuriesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Construction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthcare and Social Assistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Manufacturing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mining
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Oil and Gas Extraction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Public Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Transportation, Warehousing, and Utilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Wholesale and Retail Trade
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * 7 â Promote safe and healthy work design and well-beingplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Construction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthcare and Social Assistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mining
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Oil and Gas Extraction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Public Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Transportation, Warehousing, and Utilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Wholesale and Retail Trade
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Service Goals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Appendix A. BNI Criteria

#### Follow NIOSH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * fb Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * pinterest Pinterest
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * twitter Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * youtube YouTube

#### NIOSH Homepage

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NIOSH A-Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Workplace Safety & Health Topics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Publications and Products
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact NIOSH

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:48 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

