https://www.cdc.gov/other/plainwriting.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/other/plainwriting.html    
                Description: Plain Writing - CDC    
                Keywords: plain writing,  federal plain language guidelines,  plain writing plan,  health literacy, Policies &amp; Guidelines    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Using CDC.gov

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Plain Writing at CDC

Minus

Related Pages

### Our Promise to the Public: Writing You Can Understand

CDC is committed to using plain writing in information for the public. Our
information is relevant to many groups, and plain writing makes the
information even more useful. The Plain Writing Act of 2010external icon
requires all federal agencies to write plainly when they communicate with the
public, and CDC is taking many steps to use plain writing.

### What CDC is Doing to Use Plain Writing

Writing is only one way CDC communicates with the public. We also make
presentations, hold public meetings, and produce radio interviews, podcasts
and videos so that our information is available to as many people as possible.
Plain language is just as important when we speak as when we write. At CDC, we
use plain language, not just plain writing.

CDC follows the federal plain language guidelinesexternal icon and uses the
Clear Communication Index to assess and improve our public communication
materials. Our websites follow the best practices in web design and
navigation. CDC already has trained many staff in plain language and is
training many more. We are creating new documents and materials for the public
in plain language. When we make major changes to documents and materials
already available to the public, we use plain language.

Everyday Words for Public Health Communication pdf icon[PDF - 282KB] offers
expert recommendations from CDC's Health Literacy Council and other agency
communicators on how to reduce jargon and replace problematic terms in order
to improve real comprehension.

### View the Plain Writing Plan

You can view the plain writing plan pdf icon[PDF - 65KB]external icon from the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). CDC is following this
plan. HHS releases annual reports that provide an overview of the
implementation efforts made by operating agencies. You can view a summary of
CDC's progress in using plain writing here: 2019 Plain Writing Act Survey word
icon[DOC - 665 KB]

### Provide Us Feedback

You can provide us feedback on our documents and materials and let us know how
we are doing in using plain language. You can contact us at 800-CDC-INFO
(800-232-4636) or Contact CDC-INFO.

You can find more information on plain language at the federal plain language
web siteexternal icon or CDC's web site on health literacy.

### CDC's Examples of Plain Writing for the Public

CDC programs use plain language in many types of public documents. We are
providing some examples so you know what to expect.

                      * **Vital Signs**  
CDC has created a series of fact sheets called _Vital Signs_ on the most
important public health problems in the U.S. The fact sheets provide basic
information and action steps that individuals, communities and organizations
can take.

                      * **CDC Features**  
CDC feature articles are written by subject matter experts and health
communicators, then edited to emphasize strong call-to-action messages and
friendly, meaningful visuals.

Page last reviewed: March 4, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Using CDC.gov

                      * About CDC.govplus icon
                        * Search Tips
                        * File Formats
                        * CDC Email Updatesplus icon
                          * Manage Subscriptions
                          * Frequently Asked Questions
                      * Policies and Regulationsplus icon
                        * Guidelines for Public Comments
                        * Linking to CDC.gov
                        * Use of Agency Materials
                        * PHIL Image Reuse Terms and Conditions
                        * Plain Writing
                        * Privacy Policyplus icon
                          * Current Third Party Tools/Pages
                          * Our Cookie Policy
                          * Mobile Privacy Policy
                        * Web Site Disclaimers
                        * CDC Nondiscrimination notice
                        * Language Assistance

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

