https://www.cdc.gov/meningitis/lab-manual/chpt04-biosafety.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/meningitis/lab-manual/chpt04-biosafety.html    
                Description: Biosafety Lab Manual for Meningitis Lab Methods.    
                Keywords: meningitis, meningitis biosafety lab, bacterial meningitis, meningitis in lab, meningitis in laboratory, meningitis laboratory methods, epidemiology, biosafety, clinical specimens    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Meningitis

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Chapter 4: Biosafety

Minus

Related Pages

Printer friendly version Cdc-pdf[9 pages]

Laboratorians working with infectious agents are at risk of laboratory-
acquired infections as a result of accidents or unrecognized incidents. The
degree of hazard depends upon the virulence and dose of the biological agent,
route of exposure, host resistance, proper biosafety training, and experience
with biohazards. Laboratory-acquired infections occur when microorganisms are
inadvertently ingested, inhaled, or introduced into tissues. Multiple
instances of laboratory-acquired meningococcal infection have been reported
with a case fatality rate of 50% (1, 2). While laboratory-acquired _H.
influenzae_ and _S. pneumoniae_ infections are not as extensively reported,
deadly infections with any of these organisms are possible if appropriate
biosafety procedures are not strictly followed in a properly equipped
laboratory. Biosafety Level 2 (BSL-2) practices are required for work
involving these agents as they present a potential hazard to personnel and the
environment. The following requirements have been established for
laboratorians working in BSL-2 facilities:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory personnel must receive specific training in handling pathogenic agents and be directed by fully trained and experienced scientists.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Access to the laboratory must be limited to personnel who have a need to be in the laboratory and have undergone proper training when work is being conducted.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Extreme precautions must be taken with contaminated sharp items and sharps must be disposed of in labeled appropriate hardened plastic containers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Personal protective equipment (PPE) must be worn at all times, and particular care must be taken when performing procedures that have the potential to create aerosols.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. Protective clothing and equipment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1. Laboratory coats

Protective coats, gowns, smocks, or uniforms designated for laboratory use
must be worn while working in the laboratory. Laboratory coats should fit
properly and should cover arms to the wrist. This protective clothing must be
removed and left in the laboratory before leaving for non-laboratory areas,
such as offices or eating areas. All protective clothing is either disposed of
in the laboratory or laundered by the institution; it should never be taken
home by personnel.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2. Gloves

Regardless of the type of infectious material, gloves should be worn when
performing potentially hazardous procedures involving infectious materials in
which there is a risk of splashing or skin contamination or when the
laboratory worker has cuts or broken skin on his or her hands. Gloves should
always be worn when handling clinical specimens, body fluids, and tissues from
humans and animals. These specimens should be handled as if they are positive
for hepatitis B virus, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), or any bloodborne
pathogens. Gloves must be removed when contaminated by splashing or spills or
when work with infectious materials is completed. When removing gloves, avoid
touching any areas of the gloves that may have come in contact with infectious
material.

Gloves should not be worn outside the laboratory. Personnel should not use the
telephone, computer, or open doors with gloves that have been used in
laboratory procedures. All used gloves should be disposed of by discarding
them with other disposable materials and autoclaving. Hands should be washed
immediately after removing gloves.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3. Barrier precautions

Clinical specimens, body fluids, and tissues from humans and animals should be
assumed to be positive for human pathogens. These materials should be handled
in a biosafety cabinet (BSC) or using other barrier precautions (e.g.,
goggles, mask, face shield, or other splatter guards) whenever a procedure is
performed that can potentially create an aerosol. However, manipulating
suspensions of _N. meningitidis_ outside of a biosafety cabinet is associated
with a high risk for contracting meningococcal disease (2) and using only a
splatter guard on the bench top does not provide adequate protection (1).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4. Foot Protection

Closed-toe comfortable shoes that have low heels should be worn in the
laboratory or other areas where chemicals are present. This will reduce
injuries that may occur from spills, splashes, falling objects, slipping, and
broken glass.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2. Standard microbiological safety practices

The following safety guidelines listed below apply to all microbiology
laboratories, regardless of biosafety level. All procedures requiring handling
of infectious materials, potentially infectious materials, or clinical
specimens should be performed while wearing appropriate PPE.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1. Limiting access to laboratory

Sometimes non-laboratorians attempt to enter the laboratory to obtain test
results. Although this occurs more frequently in clinical laboratories, access
to the laboratory should be limited to trained personnel with a need to work
in the laboratory, regardless of the setting.

Biohazard signs or stickers should be posted near or on all laboratory doors
and on all equipment used for laboratory work (e.g., incubators, hoods,
microwaves, ice machines, refrigerators, and freezers). Children who have not
reached the age of adulthood and pets are not allowed in laboratory areas. All
laboratories should be locked when not in use. In addition, all freezers and
refrigerators located in corridors should be locked, especially those that
contain infectious organisms or other hazardous materials.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2. Disinfectants

Organisms may have different susceptibilities to various disinfectants. As a
surface disinfectant, 70% isopropyl alcohol is generally effective. However,
70% alcohol is not the disinfectant of choice for decontaminating spills. It
should be noted that 100% alcohol is not as effective a disinfectant as 70%
alcohol. Phenolic disinfectants, although expensive, are effective against
many organisms. Always read disinfectant labels for manufacturers'
recommendations for dilution and for exposure times for efficacy. An effective
general disinfectant is a 1:100 (1%) dilution of household bleach (sodium
hypochlorite) in water; at this dilution, bleach can be used for wiping
surfaces of benches, hoods, and other equipment. A 1:10 (10%) dilution of
bleach should be used to clean up spills of cultured or concentrated
infectious material where heavy contamination has occurred; however, it is
more corrosive, will pit stainless steel, and should not be used routinely. If
bleach is used, wipe down the area with 70% alcohol to inactivate the bleach.
If bleach is used as a disinfectant, the diluted solutions should be made
weekly from a concentrated stock solution.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3. Decontamination of spills

The following procedure is recommended for decontaminating spills:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Isolate the area to prevent anyone from entering.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Wear gloves and protective clothing such as a gown or lab coat, shoes, and a mask (if the spill may contain a respiratory agent or if the agent is unknown).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Absorb or cover the spill with disposable towels, but do not wipe up the spill or remove the towels.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Saturate the towels and the affected area with an appropriately diluted intermediate or high-level disinfectant (e.g., a phenolic formulation or household bleach) and leave them in place for at least 15 minutes.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Wipe area using clean disinfectant-soaked towels and allow area to air dry.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Place all disposable materials used to decontaminate the spill into a biohazard container. If broken glassware is involved, use mechanical means to dispose of it.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Handle the material in the same manner as other infectious waste.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4. Hand washing

All laboratories should contain a sink with running water and soap for hand
washing. Frequent hand washing is one of the most effective procedures for
avoiding laboratory-acquired infections. Hands should be washed for at least
one minute with an appropriate germicidal soap after infectious materials are
handled and before exiting the laboratory. If germicidal soap is unavailable,
then use 70% isopropyl or ethyl alcohol to cleanse hands.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5. Eating

Eating, drinking, and smoking are not permitted in laboratory work areas. Food
must be stored and eaten outside of the laboratory in designated areas used
for that purpose only. Personal articles (e.g., handbags, eyeglasses, or
wallets) should not be placed on laboratory workstations.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6. Mouth pipetting

Mouth pipetting is strictly prohibited. Rubber bulbs or mechanical devices
must be used.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7. Sharps

A high degree of precaution must always be taken with any contaminated sharp
items, including needles and syringes, slides, glass pipettes, capillary
tubes, broken glassware, and scalpels. Sharps should be disposed of in
designated puncture-proof, leak-proof, and sealable sharps containers. To
minimize finger sticks, used disposable needles must not be bent, sheared,
broken, recapped, removed from disposable syringes, or otherwise manipulated
by hand before disposal. Non-disposable sharps should be placed in a labeled
discard pan for decontamination before cleaning. Broken glassware should not
be handled directly by hand but should be removed by mechanical means (e.g.,
brush and dustpan, tongs, or forceps).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8. Aerosols

All procedures must be carefully performed to minimize splashes or
aerosolization. When procedures with a high potential for creating infectious
aerosols are conducted or when a procedure that can result in splashing or
spraying of the face with infectious or other hazardous materials is used,
laboratory work should be conducted in a biosafety cabinet or by laboratorians
wearing the appropriate face protection equipment (e.g., goggles, mask, face
shield, or other splatter guards). Face protection should also be used when
working with high concentrations or large volumes of infectious agents.
Procedures that pose such a risk may include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Centrifugation, vortexing, and vigorous mixing: these procedures should be performed in closed containers. If safety capped tubes are not available, sealed tubes should be used. All body fluids and infectious materials should only be centrifuged in carriers with safety caps.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Handling tissue specimens or bodily fluids: gauze should be used to remove the tops on blood specimens and should be placed around the top of blood culture bottles to minimize aerosol production during removal of the needle. Grinding of tissue specimens should be performed in a biosafety cabinet.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sonic disruption: infectious materials that undergo sonic disruption should be placed in a sealed container within the sonicator.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Opening containers of infectious materials whose internal pressures or temperatures may be different from ambient pressures or temperatures.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Loops containing infectious material should be dried in the hot air above a burner before flaming.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Inoculating wires and loops should be cooled after flame sterilization by holding them still in the air for 5-10 seconds before they touch colonies or clinical material. Disposable loops are preferred if resources are available.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9. Decontaminating bench tops and other surfaces

Bench tops and other potentially contaminated surfaces should be wiped with a
phenolic disinfectant (10% bleach) routinely after working with infectious
agents or clinical specimens or after spills, splashes, or other contamination
by infectious materials. Following disinfection with 10% bleach, the surface
must then be wiped down with 70% isopropyl or ethyl alcohol to inactivate the
bleach and prevent corrosion of the work surface. Solutions of disinfectants
should be maintained at each work station (see Disinfectants, Section II.B.).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10. Disposal of contaminated materials

All discarded plates, tubes, clinical samples, pipettes, gloves, and other
contaminated materials should be placed in disposal containers at each bench.
Special disposal containers typically constructed of puncture-proof plastic
must be used for sharps to minimize the risk of injury. Avoid overfilling
disposal containers. The lids should rest flush with the top of the container.
Containers of contaminated material should be carefully transported to the
autoclave room and autoclaved before disposal. Water should be added to each
container to be autoclaved for optimal sterilization. Waste disposal
containers in the laboratory should be clearly labeled for disposal of
infectious items or non-infectious items. Waste disposal containers for
infectious or potentially infectious items should be lined with a plastic
biohazard or otherwise specially marked bag.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11. Autoclaving

An autoclave must be available for the BSL-2 laboratory and must be operated
only by personnel who have been properly trained in its use. To verify that
each autoclave is working properly, spore strips (such as _Bacillus
stearothermophilus)_ or other biological indicators designed to test for
efficiency of sterilization should be included in autoclave loads on a regular
basis (i.e., monthly). Each autoclave load should be monitored with
temperature-sensitive tape, thermograph, or by other means (i.e., biological
indicators). A logbook should be maintained for each autoclave to record the
date, times, and indicator of sterilization of each autoclave run.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12. General laboratory cleanliness

All areas of the laboratory must be kept clean and orderly. Dirt, dust,
crowding, or clutter is a safety hazard, may lead to contamination of
specimens, isolates, and/or biological assays, and is not consistent with
acceptable biological research. Floors should be kept clean and free of
unnecessary clutter and should be washed with a germicidal solution on a
regular basis and after any spill of infectious material.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13. Refrigerators and freezers

The temperature of laboratory refrigerators and freezers should be monitored
daily to ensure that they are functioning properly. They should also be
regularly inspected for the presence of broken vials or tubes containing
infectious agents. When removing and discarding broken material, laboratorians
should wear gloves and PPE. If the broken material is suspected of being
infectious, disinfectant should be applied to the affected area and kept in
place for at least 15 minutes before removal of the broken material.
Refrigerators and freezers should be regularly cleaned with a disinfectant and
defrosted to prevent possible contamination or temperature failure.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14. Fire prevention

Burners should be used away from light fixtures and flammable materials. Bulk
flammable material must be stored in a safety cabinet. Small amounts of these
flammable materials (e.g., ethyl acetate, ethyl alcohol, and methanol) can be
stored in safety containers such as a safety bench can or dispenser can.
Burners must be turned off when not in use. All laboratorians must know the
location of fire extinguishers, fire blankets, alarms, and showers, and fire
safety instructions and evacuation routes should be posted.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3. Special Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1. Accidents

All injuries or unusual incidents should be reported immediately to the
supervisor. When cuts or puncture wounds from potentially infected needles or
glassware occur, the affected area should be promptly washed with disinfectant
soap and water for 15 minutes. Report a needle-stick injury, any other skin
puncture, to the supervisor and appropriate health officials immediately as
prophylactic treatment of the personnel performing the procedure may be
indicated. In the event of a centrifuge accident in which safety carriers have
not been used, other personnel in the area should be warned immediately and
the area should be isolated to prevent anyone from entering.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2. Laboratory design and equipment

The laboratory should be designed to avoid conditions that pose biosafety
problems. Ample space should be provided to allow for safe circulation of
staff when working and cleaning. There should be clear separation of areas for
infectious and non-infectious work. Illumination should be adequate. Walls,
ceiling, floors, benches, and chairs must be easy to clean, impermeable to
liquids, and resistant to chemicals and disinfectants. Hand-washing basins
with running water and soap and disinfectant must be provided in each room. An
autoclave or other means of decontamination must be available close to the
laboratory. Adequate storage space for specimens, reagents, supplies, or
personal items should be provided inside and outside the working area, as
appropriate. Safety systems for fire, chemicals, electrical, or radiation
emergencies, and an emergency shower and eyewash facilities should be in
place. Security measures should also prevent theft, misuse, or deliberate
release of the infectious materials.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3. Medical surveillance of laboratory workers

The employing authority is responsible for providing adequate surveillance and
management of occupationally acquired infections. Pre-employment and periodic
health checks should be organized and performed. Prophylaxis or other specific
protective measures may be applied after a risk assessment of possible
exposure and a health check of the individual or individuals. Special
attention should be paid to women of childbearing age and pregnant women as
some microorganisms present a higher risk for the fetus (i.e., rubella virus).

Immunization of the laboratory workers can also be proposed taking into
account the following criteria:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Conclusion of the risk assessment.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Verification by serology of the immunization status of the worker (some workers may be already immunized from prior vaccination or infection).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The local availability, licensing state, and utility of vaccines (i.e., does the vaccine provide protection against the prevalent serogroups or serotypes circulating in the region?).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The availability of therapeutic drugs (i.e., antibiotics) in case of accident.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * The existence of national regulations or recommendations.

A first-aid box containing basic medical supplies should be available along
with a written emergency procedure to access a doctor for definitive treatment
of the injury. First aid kits should be periodically checked to ensure
contents are within the expiration date.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4. Biosafety management and implementation

The laboratory director is responsible for implementation of biosafety
measures. He or she can delegate tasks to a qualified individual or a group of
individuals who perform them on a part-time basis, or even assign a biosafety
officer with the appropriate background and knowledge.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5. Other sources of biosafety information

For more information, please review:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 1999. Biosafety in microbiological and biomedical laboratories, 5th ed. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute. Protection of Laboratory Workers From Occupationally Acquired Infections; Approved Guidelines--Third Edition. CLSI document M29-A3. [ISBN 1-56238-567-4]. Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute, 940 West Valley Road, Suite 1400, Wayne, Pennsylvania 19087-1898. USA, 2005.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratory Biosafety Manual, third edition. WHO/CDS/CSR/LYO/2004.11. World Health Organization, Geneva, 2004, p 178.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Laboratory Biosafety Guidelines, third edition. Public Health Agency of Canada, 2004, p 113.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Manual for the laboratory identification and antimicrobial susceptibility testing of bacterial pathogens of public health importance in the developing world. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and World Health Organization, 2003, p 359.

## References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. Sevjar, J.J., Johnson, D., Popovic, T., Miller, M. J., Downes, F., Somsel, P., et al. Assessing the risk of laboratory-acquired meningococcal disease. _Journal of Clinical Microbiology_. 2005;43:4811-4813.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2. Boutet, R., Stuart, J. M., Kaczmarski, E. B., Gray, S. J., Jones, D. M, and Andrews, N. Risk of Laboratory-Acquired Meningococcal Disease. _Journal of Hospital Infection_. 2001;49:282-284.

 Top of Page

Back to Laboratory Methods Manual

View Page In:Cdc-pdf PDF [53K]

Page last reviewed: April 15, 2016

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases

home Meningitis Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bacterial Meningitis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Laboratory Methods for the Diagnosis of Meningitis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Disclosure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Authors/Acknowledgements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Annex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Viral Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fungal Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Parasitic Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Amebic Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Non-infectious Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Resources for Healthcare Professionals

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vaccine Schedules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preteen & Teen Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Meningococcal Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sepsis

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM

