https://www.cdc.gov/other/public-comments.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/other/public-comments.html    
                Description: Public Comments - CDC    
                Keywords: public comments,  comment policy, Policies &amp; Guidelines    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Using CDC.gov

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Guidelines for Public Comments

Minus

Related Pages

Some CDC sites, blogs, and applications allow for the posting of public
comments. Posted comments must directly relate to the information and/or
topics of discussion on those sites, blogs, and applications.

Comments that are moderated will be reviewed before posting. Comments that are
not moderated will be addressed as soon as possible. We trust the community to
ignore personal attacks, negative speech, and respond politely.

We retain the discretion to determine which comments violate our comment
policy. We also reserve the right to remove and/or not allow comments to get
posted. The views expressed within posted comments do not necessarily reflect
those of CDC or the federal government.

This comment policy is valid for all discussions on any CDC managed forum.
Thank you for taking the time to review our comment policy. We encourage your
participation in our discussion and look forward to an active exchange of
ideas.

Comments containing the following will not be allowed:

                      * Hate speech
                      * Profanity, obscenity or vulgarity
                      * Defamation to a person, people, or organization
                      * Name calling and/or personal attacks
                      * Statements for or against a specific bill, law, or candidate for political office
                      * Spam comments, such as the same comment posted repeatedly on a profile
                      * Comments whose main purpose are to sell a product
                      * Inappropriate or unrelated links
                      * Comments that infringe on copyrights
                      * Other comments that the CDC deems inappropriate

**Direct Responses**  
CDC welcomes your comments and questions; however we cannot respond to
everyone. For a direct response, please use the CDC-INFO National Contact
Center. CDC-INFO is your single source for accurate, timely, consistent, and
science-based information. Representatives are available to answer your
questions in English and Spanish from 8AM-8PM ET, Monday-Friday (Closed
Holidays). Call: 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636) TTY: (888) 232-6348, Email:
CDC-INFO. Some sites, blogs, and applications may have alternate contact
information listed where you may write or call for a direct response.

**Medical Questions and Personal Information**  
CDC cannot answer personal medical questions. Only your health care provider
can answer questions about your health. We will not allow comments that
contain personal identifying information or private medical information about
a third party, especially information restricted from release under the
Privacy Act or the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
(HIPAA).

**Press Questions**  
Reporters please send questions to the CDC Media Relations team.

**Copyright Information**

Unless a copyright is indicated, information on CDC's sites, blogs, and
applications is in the public domain and may be copied and distributed without
permission.

**Disclaimer**

The opinions expressed in public comments are those of the authors and may not
represent the official positions of the CDC or the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services.

References to products and services do not constitute an endorsement by CDC or
the U.S. government. Comments may include links to information created and
maintained by other public and private organizations and individuals. We
provide these links solely for our users' information and convenience. CDC
does not control or guarantee the accuracy, relevance, timeliness or
completeness of information contained on external sites. CDC does not endorse
the organizations sponsoring externals sites, and we do not endorse the views
they express or the products and services they offer. See also other CDC
Policies and Regulations.

Page last reviewed: December 12, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

home Using CDC.gov

                      * About CDC.govplus icon
                        * Search Tips
                        * File Formats
                        * CDC Email Updatesplus icon
                          * Manage Subscriptions
                          * Frequently Asked Questions
                      * Policies and Regulationsplus icon
                        * Guidelines for Public Comments
                        * Linking to CDC.gov
                        * Use of Agency Materials
                        * PHIL Image Reuse Terms and Conditions
                        * Plain Writing
                        * Privacy Policyplus icon
                          * Current Third Party Tools/Pages
                          * Our Cookie Policy
                          * Mobile Privacy Policy
                        * Web Site Disclaimers
                        * CDC Nondiscrimination notice
                        * Language Assistance

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

