https://www.cdc.gov/meningitis/lab-manual/chpt13-quality-control-assurance.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/meningitis/lab-manual/chpt13-quality-control-assurance.html    
                Description: Primary Culture and Presumptive Identification Laboratory Methods.    
                Keywords: meningitis, bacterial meningitis, meningitis in lab, meningitis in laboratory, meningitis laboratory methods, epidemiology, biosafety, clinical specimens    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Meningitis

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Chapter 13: Quality Control/Quality Assurance

Minus

Related Pages

Printer friendly version Cdc-pdf[7 pages]

Quality Control/Quality Assurance (QC/QA) can be defined as the set of planned
and systematic activities focused on providing confidence that quality
requirements will be fulfilled. It covers a wide range of matters that
influence the quality of a product or service. In a medical laboratory, the
quality can be defined as accuracy, reliability, and timeliness of the
reported test results (1). QC refers to those measures that must be included
in each assay to verify that the test is working properly. QA is defined as
the overall program that ensures that the final results reported by the
laboratory are as correct and accurate as possible.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. Negative consequences of laboratory errors

This broad concept applies to any kind of laboratory testing, including
diagnostic testing for bacterial meningitis. Inaccurate meningitis diagnostic
results can have significant consequences at the patient care or public health
level. At the patient care level, errors can lead to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Failure to provide proper treatment to the patient
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Unnecessary treatment, treatment complications, or additional expenses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Delay in correct diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Additional and unnecessary diagnostic testing

At a public health level, laboratory errors on the species, serotype or
serogroup identification, as well as antibiotic susceptibility profiles, can
impact a cornucopia of public health decisions on the following matters:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Delay in determining when the epidemic threshold has been reached and implementing public health measures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Inadequate national control measure recommendations or treatment algorithms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Inappropriate choice of antibiotics or vaccines

These consequences result in increased cost in time, personnel effort, other
resources, and poor patient outcomes in terms of morbidity and mortality.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2. Quality management system

To achieve the highest level of accuracy and reliability, standard QC/QA
testing procedures and conditions must be practiced in laboratories on an
every day basis. A quality management system, which oversees the entire
system, is very important for achieving optimal laboratory performance.
Laboratory processes can be grouped into pre-examination, examination, and
post-examination categories. Quality management measures should be applied
during the entire path of workflow that begins with the patient and ends in
interpreting and reporting results. The quality management system is not only
concerned with monitoring QC/QA programs, but should also include
administrative considerations that may indirectly influence the quality and
efficiency of the laboratory operation.

A widely used quality management system model organizes all of the laboratory
activities into twelve quality system essentials, which are a set of
coordinated activities that serve as building blocks for quality management
(2):

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1. Organization and supervision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2. Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3. Equipment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4. Purchasing and inventory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5. Documents and records
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6. Process control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7. Information management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8. Occurrence management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9. Assessment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10. Customer service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11. Process improvement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12. Facilities and safety

Some of these elements constitute management requirements (i.e., organization,
documents and records, and purchasing and inventory) while other constitute
technical requirements (personnel, equipment, and process control with the
examination procedures) (3). Many of the twelve quality system essentials
overlap each other (i.e., there is a close relationship between documents and
records, and information management).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1. Quality systems essentials for meningitis diagnostic laboratories

Most of the quality systems essentials described above are not specific to the
meningitis diagnostic laboratory and should apply to all laboratory
disciplines regardless of the nature of the specimens, pathogens, or assays.
However, some specific meningitis laboratory quality assurance measures can be
highlighted. Many of them are detailed again in the respective chapters of
this manual.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. Organization and supervision

The structure and management of the laboratory must be organized so that
quality management policies can be established and implemented. The laboratory
should prepare an organizational chart that reflects the hierarchy and lines
of authority with functions and responsibilities of each post. The current
duties and responsibilities of staff should be specified in written job
descriptions including training required and necessary experience. The
director's commitment is crucial. A quality manager should be designated to
ensure the implementation and monitoring of the quality policies.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. Personnel

The most important laboratory resource is a competent, trained, and motivated
staff. Continuous education opportunities should be offered to the staff and
recorded, especially if new tests or methods are introduced. Regular
competency assessment and proficiency testing should be conducted and
documented. This can be done by direct observation of the personnel, records
monitoring, and/or by analyzing the quality control or the external quality
assessment results.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3. Equipment

Specimen identification and characterization requires many types of equipment,
such as microscopes, incubators, autoclaves, biosafety cabinets,
refrigerators, freezers, water baths, automated identification systems, or
antibiotic susceptibility systems. Choosing the right equipment, installing it
correctly, assuring that the staff is properly trained to use the equipment,
and assuring that the new equipment works properly and receives proper
maintenance are crucial. Equipment manuals should be available in the
laboratory area for easy reference. An inventory of equipment including
records of maintenance and repair should be maintained.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. Purchasing and inventory

Proper management of purchasing and inventory of reagents, media, and supplies
can produce cost savings in addition to assuring accurate and timely reporting
of laboratory results. The procedures should be written and implemented to
assure that all reagents and supplies are correctly selected, purchased, used,
and stored in a manner that preserves integrity and reliability. The inventory
should be kept up to date including information on reception, storage, and
issuance. Package inserts and Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) should be
archived as part of records keeping.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. Documents and records

Documents provide written information about policies, processes, and testing
procedures and should be stored in the laboratory quality manual for each
laboratory. This manual should serve as a basis for writing the laboratory
Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) which need to be adapted to the
laboratory's role and capacity. The SOPs, QC/QA procedures, specimen testing
request forms, report forms, and other laboratory forms are all important
components of the quality manual, which documents the quality management
system.

An SOP should be written for all procedures in the laboratory, including
specimen collection, transport, storage, waste disposal, Gram stain,
microscopy, biochemistry measurements, culture, identification, antimicrobial
susceptibility testing, typing methods (serological or molecular methods),
reagents and media preparation, equipment use and maintenance, and SOP
writing.

Examples of records include request forms, report forms, logbooks, quality
control results, patient reports, critical communications, and notices from
hospitals or public health authorities. See Chapter 3: Results Management and
Reporting of Data for items that should be included in the request and report
forms.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6. Process control

Process control refers to control of all activities involved in the operation
of a laboratory, from pre-examination to post-examination steps.

One of the most familiar process control measures is the use of internal QC to
monitor the performance of examination methods. Internal QC of specimen
identification and characterization should include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Regular QC to check media and reagents, such as agar plates and serogrouping or serotyping antisera. QC should be performed quarterly as well as when a new lot is received in the laboratory.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Well-characterized reference control strains (gram-positive and gram-negative) should be used to assess the following tests: Gram stain, culture procedures, identification, serogrouping or serotyping, PCR, and antimicrobial susceptibility testing. If access to QC strains is difficult, well-characterized clinical isolates confirmed and characterized in a reference laboratory (such as a WHO Collaborating Center) are available. Isolates received from another laboratory as part of a proficiency testing program received in the scope of External Quality Assessment Schemes can also be used.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Internal QCs included in rapid diagnostic tests are to be used each time the kit is used.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7. Information management

Written SOPs should be developed for data management, cleaning, and reporting.
See Chapter 3: Results Management and Reporting of Data.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8. Occurrence management

An "occurrence" is an error or an event that should not have happened. A
system is needed for detecting and documenting these occurrences, for handling
them properly, and for taking corrective action to reduce the chance of
recurrence. Common errors include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Patient identification error
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Specimen misplacement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Specimen transport delayed or at insufficient temperature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Contaminated specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Performing an inappropriate test
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Performing a test inconsistent with the written procedure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Lack of QC/QA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Transcription and clerical errors

Occurrences are detected through various means, such as supervisory review,
physicians' or patients' complaints, QC/QA results, or findings from external
audits. Immediate remedial corrective action should be undertaken before the
result is reported to the clinician or public health authorities. Ultimately,
corrective actions should be implemented to prevent similar errors from
recurring.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9. Assessment

Assessment is a tool for examining laboratory performance and comparing it to
known standards or to performance of other laboratories. Assessment may be
internal, performed by the laboratory's own staff, or may be external,
conducted by an external group or agency outside the laboratory.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * External Quality Assessment (EQA) is a system for objectively checking the laboratory's performance using an external agency or facility. There are three commonly used EQA methods or processes: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Proficiency testing (PT) through a panel of unknown specimens sent regularly to the laboratory by an organizer. The laboratory reports the results back to the organizer who will compare the test results with known results and record a pass (all results concordant) or fail (any discrepant results) for the PT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Confirmation by sending a subset of isolates to a reference laboratory for re-identification and characterization.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Site visits conducted by inspection, certification, or accreditation bodies.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Internal audits can be conducted by the staff of the laboratory to identify weaknesses and undertake corrective actions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Quality indicators can be defined by the laboratory management and staff to complement the use of internal QC. While internal QC primarily assesses the examination steps, other quality indicators can be designed to monitor the pre- and post-examination steps: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Percentage of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) specimens received from remote areas and not transported in Trans-Isolate (T-I) medium (if T-I was available but not used). This indicator provides information on the pre-examination performance.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Percentage of CSF specimens received without appropriate identification, which provides information on the pre-examination performance.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Discrepancies between the CSF macroscopic examination and the cell count, which provides information on the examination performance.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Inappropriate antibiotic treatment after the antimicrobial susceptibility testing report is given to the physician, which provides information on the reporting system performance, physician error, or if the proper antibiotic is not available.

Percentage of results reported on time, which provides information on
examination and reporting performance.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10. Customer service

The laboratory should understand who their customers are (the patients, the
physicians, or the public health authorities), assess their needs, and use
customer feedback for making improvements. Customers' satisfaction can be
assessed by means of questionnaire, interviews, or meetings.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11. Process improvement

The primary goal of a quality system is continuous improvement of the
laboratory processes in a systematic manner. A number of tools have been
described above to identify errors, such as customer service surveys, internal
QC, EQA, auditing, and quality indicators. A rigorous analysis of all of these
indicators should lead to improvements in procedures and practices. These
changes should be recorded and reflected in the SOPs and implemented in the
laboratory. Open communication among staff members is also important to
encourage suggestions that may improve the quality and efficiency of the
laboratory.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12. Facilities and safety

The laboratory should develop SOPs for biosafety, basic safe operating
procedures, and waste management that are adapted to their specific role in
the laboratory and in conjunction with institutional policies. See Chapter 4:
Biosafety.

## References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1. WHO/CDC/CLSI. Laboratory Quality Management System Training ToolkitExternal. 2009.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2. NCCLS. Application of a quality management system model for laboratory services; Approved Guideline: Third Edition. NCCLS document GP26-A3. NCCLS. Wayne, Pennsylvania. 2004.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3. ISO 15189:2007. Medical laboratories: requirements for quality and competence. Geneva, Switzerland: International Organization for Standardization; 2007.

 Top of Page

Back to Laboratory Methods Manual

View Page In:Cdc-pdf PDF [67K]

Page last reviewed: April 15, 2016

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases

home Meningitis Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bacterial Meningitis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Laboratory Methods for the Diagnosis of Meningitis expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Disclosure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Authors/Acknowledgements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Annex
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Viral Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Fungal Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Parasitic Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Amebic Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Non-infectious Meningitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Resources for Healthcare Professionals

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Vaccine Schedules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Preteen & Teen Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Meningococcal Disease
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sepsis

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM

