https://jobs.cdc.gov/job/hyattsville/it-specialist/250/15926651Link: https://jobs.cdc.gov/job/hyattsville/it-specialist/250/15926651    
                Description: Learn more about applying for IT Specialist at CDC    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip to main content

![](https://tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/v3_0/img/mobile-logo.png) search

A-Z Index

Start of Search Controls

Search Form Controls

Search The CDC

Cancel Submit

Search The CDC

During the COVID-19 pandemic, CDC is working diligently to fulfill our
mission. New positions are posted often in a wide range of professions. Please
check our site frequently for your opportunity to contribute to the health
security of our nation. We are also currently accepting applications to fill
multiple Temporary Positions.

## Careers at CDC

Close

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Careers Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Working at CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Students
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Veterans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Commissioned Corps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overseas Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Job Seekers with Disabilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Career Fields
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Scientists & Public Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Medical Officers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Mission Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Executives & Scientists
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Benefits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hiring Events

Search Jobs

## Search Jobs

Keyword

Category Choose a job category Administrative Officer Architecture Biological
Science Technician Computer Science Contracting COVID-19 Education And
Training Technician Electronics Technical Emergency Management Specialist
General Arts And Information General Business And Industry General Education
And Training General Engineering General Health Science Grants Management
Human Resources Assistance Human Resources Management Information Technology
Management Interior Design Management And Program Analysis Medical Officer
Microbiology Miscellaneous Administration And Program Nurse Public Health
Program Specialist Quality Assurance Safety and Occupational Health Management
Social Science Statistics

State Choose a state Alaska Arizona California Colorado Connecticut Florida
Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kentucky Louisiana Maine Mangilao
Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Missouri Nebraska Nevada New Jersey
New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon
Pennsylvania Rhode Island San Juan South Carolina Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont
Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin

City Choose a city Albany Albuquerque Alexandria Anchorage Ashley Atlanta
Augusta Austin Baltimore Baton Rouge Berlin Blue Springs Boise Boston Boston
Bruceton Burlington Charleston Chicago Cincinnati Coalmont College Park
Columbia Columbia Columbus Concord Dallas Denver Des Moines Detroit Durham El
Paso Ellicott City Fairfield Fenton Fort Collins Fort Lauderdale Fort Worth
Frankfort Freeport Gainesville Hartford Hollywood Honolulu Houston Hyattsville
Indianapolis Keller Kensington Las Vegas Lincoln Los Angeles Lyndhurst Madison
Marlborough Miami Milton Minneapolis Monroe Morgantown Nashville New Orleans
New York Newark North Augusta North Miami Northampton Oklahoma City Perrysburg
Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland Potomac Providence Raleigh Richmond
Richmond Rockville Saint Charles Saint Paul Salt Lake City San Antonio San
Diego San Francisco Santa Fe Seattle Shoreline Silver Spring Spokane Suffern
Tallahassee Toledo Trenton Trenton Tulsa Vero Beach White Oak Woodlawn Yardley

Search Jobs Reset

Apply Now

![]( //tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/Full_v2_0/img/modal-header.jpg)

### You will now be directed to **USAJobs.gov** to start your application to
work at CDC

Continue Cancel

# IT Specialist

**Job ID** HHS-CDC-M2-20-10785825 **Date posted** 04/07/2020 **Location**
Hyattsville, Maryland

**Department:** Department of Health And Human Services  
 **Agency:** Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  
 **Job Announcement Number:** HHS-CDC-M2-20-10785825  
 **SALARY RANGE:** $86335.0 to $133465.0/Per Year  
 **OPEN PERIOD:** 2020-04-07 to 2020-04-21  
 **SERIES & GRADE: **GS--12/13  
  
 **AGENCY MARKETING STATEMENT:**  
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is the agency Americans
trust with their lives. As a global leader in public health, CDC is the
nation's premier health promotion, prevention, and preparedness agency.
Whether we are protecting the American people from public health threats,
researching emerging diseases, or mobilizing public health programs with our
domestic and international partners, we rely on our employees to make a real
difference in the health and well-being of people here and around the world.
This position is located in the Department of Health and Human Services,
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Office of Public Health
Scientific Services (OPHSS), National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)
located in Hyattsville, MD. CDC is an Equal Opportunity Employer.  
  
 **JOB SUMMARY:**  
This position serves as an IT Specialist performing a variety of IT duties and
responsibilities for an assigned organization within CDC.  
  
 **DUTIES:**  
[  
"As a IT Specialist you will: Systems Design, Analysis and Testing in support
of development of the Healthcare Electronic Health Records (HEHR) System
Design, develop, and manage web portals utilizing technologies to include but
not limited to HTML/JavaScript/CSS, Angular, JQuery, JSON, D3, REST API,
Sprint Boot API, JUnit, Microservices, and MS SQL Server. Analyzes and
develops file structures and organization, access updating, integrity
considerations; establishes data elements, definitions, codes, and standards
Database management and design along with data integrity, data security and
privacy compliance enforcement Initiating and managing change requests for
database and system changes Contractor deliverables review and approval
Develops applications programs for a variety of software applications in
support of the assigned organization" ]  
  
 **REQUIREMENTS:**  
US Citizenship is required. Background Investigation is required. E-Verify: If
you are selected for this position, the documentation that you present for
purposes of completing the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Form I-9 will
be verified through the DHS "E-Verify" System. Federal law requires DHS to use
the E-Verify System to verify employment eligibility of all new hires, and as
a condition of continued employment obligates the new hire to take affirmative
steps to resolve any discrepancies identified by the system. The U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services is an E-Verify Participant. Direct
Deposit: All Federal employees are required to have Federal salary payments
made by direct deposit to a financial institution of their choosing. One-year
probationary period may be required. Travel, transportation, and moving
expenses will be paid: No Bargaining Unit Position: Yes Drug Screening
Required: No Recruitment Incentive may be authorized: No Annual Leave for non-
federal service may be authorized: No Research position: No Promotion
potential: Yes: This position has promotion potential to GS-13. Promotion to
the next grade level is at management's discretion and is based on your
meeting qualifications and time-in-grade requirements, demonstrated ability to
perform the higher level duties, the continuing need for the higher level
duties, and administrative approval. Promotion to the next grade level is not
guaranteed and no promise of promotion is implied. Supervisory position: No.
Time in grade (TIG) must be met within 30 days of the closing date of the
announcement. All qualification requirements must be met by the closing date
of the announcement. Public Trust/Moderate Background Investigation (5) is
required.  
  
 **QUALIFICATIONS REQUIRED:**  
Minimum Qualifications GS-12:  
Applicants must have at least one year of specialized experience at or
equivalent to the GS-11 in the Federal service as defined in the next
paragraph. Specialized experience is experience which is directly related to
the position which has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge,
skills and abilities (KSAs) to successfully perform the duties of the position
to include experience using a variety of data bases and software applications
such as SAS, SUDAAN, Java, SQL, XML, SharePoint, microservices and Microsoft
Tools in the analysis and maintenance of public health care data and databases
and IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies:
Attention to Detail, Customer Service, Oral Communication and Problem Solving.
Minimum Qualifications GS-13: Applicants must have at least one year of
specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-12 in the Federal service as
defined in the next paragraph. Specialized experience is experience which is
directly related to the position which has equipped the applicant with the
particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs) to successfully perform the
duties of the position to include experience using Java-based technologies,
SQL, XML, microservices, advanced SAS, SUDAAN software and SharePoint in the
analysis of data from national health surveys, development of reports and
special use data files, and maintenance of databases and have IT-related
experience demonstrating each of the four competencies: Attention to Detail,
Customer Service, Oral Communication and Problem Solving.  
  
 **HOW YOU WILL BE EVALUATED:**  
"Additional selections may be made for similar positions across the Department
of Health and Human Services (HHS) within the local commuting area(s) of the
location identified in this announcement. By applying, you agree to have your
application shared with interested selecting official(s) at HHS. Clearance of
CTAP/ICTAP will be applied for similar positions across HHS." Once the
application process is complete, a review of resume and supporting
documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the
assessment questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If,
after reviewing your resume and or supporting documentation, a determination
is made that you have inflated your qualifications and or experience, you may
lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions
carefully. Errors or omissions may affect your eligibility. Your
qualifications will be evaluated on the following competencies (knowledge,
skills, abilities and other characteristics):  
Collaboration / PartneringContinuous DevelopmentCreativity/InnovationCustomer
ServiceDatabase ManagementDecision MakingInformation SecurityInformation
Technology Service OperationsIT Process ImprovementIT Quality AssuranceOral
CommunicationProblem SolvingResults DrivenSoftware KnowledgeStakeholder
ManagementWritten Communication  
  
 **BENEFITS:**  
  
 **OTHER INFORMATION:**  
This vacancy is also being announced concurrently with vacancy announcement
HHS-CDC-D2-20-10785824 under competitive procedures. Please review that
announcement to see if you are eligible for consideration under competitive
procedures. NOTE: Applicants must apply separately for each announcement in
order to be considered. To Remain An Active Duty USPHS Commissioned Corps
Officer Join more than 6,500 highly qualified public health professionals as
part of the U.S. Public Health Service. Overseen by the Surgeon General, you
will be part of an elite and diverse team of professionals essential to public
health leadership and exemplary clinical service PHS Commissioned Corps
Officers interested in performing the duties of this position with the
Commissioned Corps, you are welcome to apply and receive a courtesy referral.
Note that a courtesy referral is not a competitive civil service process and
does not provide civil service status for the selected employee. Click Here
for the comparison chart of Commissioned Corps ranks to civil service, which
advises you on potential billet rankings. Additional selections may be made
within the same geographical location CDC-wide. The utilization of shared
certificates within multiple Centers of the Center of Disease Control and
Prevention may be used from this vacancy announcement for specialties to
include but not limited to: Applied Epidemiology, Behavioral Epidemiology,
Chronic Diseases, Emergency Preparedness and Response, Emerging Infectious
Diseases, Environmental Health, HIV/AIDS, Immunization, Infectious Diseases
(e.g. Viral, Parasitic, etc.), Influenza, Malaria, Non-communicable Diseases,
Outbreak Investigations, Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs), Surveillance,
Tropical Medicine, Tuberculosis (TB), Viral Hepatitis, and/or Zoonotic
Diseases. If you are a veteran with preference eligibility and you are
claiming 5-points veterans' preference, you must submit a copy of your DD-214
or other proof of eligibility. If you are claiming 10-point veterans'
preference, you must also submit an SF-15, "Application for 10-Point Veterans'
Preference" plus the proof required by that form. For more information on
veterans' preference see http://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans Males born after
December 31, 1959 must be registered or exempt from Selective Service,
www.sss.gov. For information on "People with Disabilities" please see
http://opm.gov/disability/PeopleWithDisabilities.asp  
and https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/disability-employment/getting-a-
job/sampleschedaletters.pdf. Interagency Career Transition Assistance Program
(ICTAP): For information on how to apply as an ICTAP eligible see
http://opm.gov/rif/employee_guides/career_transition.asp#ictap. To be well-
qualified and exercise selection priority for this vacancy, displaced Federal
employees must be rated at 85.0 or above on the rating criteria for this
position. To view the questionnaire, click on the following link:
https://apply.usastaffing.gov/ViewQuestionnaire/10785825 If you are unable to
apply online or need to fax a document(s), view the following link for
information regarding an Alternate Application.  
  
  
 **HOW TO APPLY:**  
  
To apply for this position, you must complete the online application and
submit the documentation specified in the Required Documents section below. A
complete application package must be submitted by 11:59 PM (EST) on 04/21/2020
of this announcement to receive consideration.  
To begin, click Apply to access the online application. You will need to be
logged into your USAJOBS account to apply. If you do not have a USAJOBS
account, you will need to create one before beginning the application. Follow
the prompts to select your rÃ©sumÃ© and/or other supporting documents to be
included with your application package. You will have the opportunity to
upload additional documents to include in your application before it is
submitted. Your uploaded documents may take several hours to clear the virus
scan process. After acknowledging you have reviewed your application package,
complete the Include Personal Information section as you deem appropriate and
click to continue with the application process. You will be taken to the
online application which you must complete in order to apply for the position.
Complete the online application, verify the required documentation is included
with your application package, and submit the application.To verify the status
of your application, log into your USAJOBS account
(https://my.usajobs.gov/Account/Login), all of your applications will appear
on the Welcome screen. The Application Status will appear along with the date
your application was last updated. For information on what each Application
Status means, visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/application/status/.
If you cannot apply online: You are encouraged to apply online. If you are
unable to apply online, please use the Alternate Application link listed in
the Additional Information section of this vacancy announcement. Applicants
are strongly encouraged to apply online if at all possible. Applying online,
through your USAJOBS account, will expedite the application process and allow
you to check your application. If you utilize the Alternate Application
method, your USAJOBS account will not display this application and you will
not receive status updates.  
  
 **REQUIRED DOCUMENTS:**  
To apply for this position, you must submit a complete Application Package
which includes: Your rÃ©sumÃ© showing work schedule, hours worked per week,
dates of employment and duties performed. Other supporting documents: Cover
Letter, optional Veterans Preference Documentation, if applicable Most recent
SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action (The SF-50 should include your tenure
code in Item Number 24 of the document), if applicable Transcripts (if
required)* Schedule A Eligibility Letter, if you are applying as a Schedule A
candidate Career Transition Assistance Program documentation, if applicable
(e.g., Certification of Expected Separation, Reduction-In-Force Separation
Notice, or Notice of Proposed Removal; SF-50 that documents the RIF separation
action; and most recent performance appraisal). *Note: You may submit an
unofficial transcript or a list of college courses completed indicating course
titles, credit hours, and grades received. An official transcript from an
accredited educational institution is required if you are selected for the
position. For Active Duty USPHS Commissioned Corps Officers Submit your latest
Personnel Order (PHS-7063) as an USPHS Active Duty Commissioned Officer
Failure to submit any of the above mentioned required documents will result in
loss of consideration due to an incomplete application package. It is your
responsibility to ensure all required documents have been submitted. For
RÃ©sumÃ© and Application Tips visit: https://help.usajobs.gov/index.php/Tips.  
  
 **WHAT TO EXPECT NEXT:**  
Once the online questionnaire is received you will receive an acknowledgement
email that your submission was successful. The most highly qualified
candidates will be referred to the hiring manager for further consideration
and possible interview. We expect to make a selection within 45 days of the
closing date of this announcement. You will receive notice via email once this
process is completed (generally 4-6 weeks).  
  
 **AGENCY CONTACT INFO:**  
CDC HELPDESK  
1600 Clifton Road NE  
Atlanta GA US 30333  
 **Telephone:** (770) 488-1725  
 **Email:** HRCS@CDC.GOV  
  

Apply Now

Match Our Jobs To Your **LinkedIn Profile**

![LinkedIn
Logo](//tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/img/callout/callout-17896-12712.png)
Job Match

Use your LinkedIn profile to see which jobs at CDC may be a good fit for you.
Just click the icon to get started.

## Featured Jobs

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Health Scientist Date posted 04/08/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Health Scientist Date posted 04/08/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * IT Specialist Date posted 04/07/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Health Communications Specialist Date posted 04/07/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * IT Specialist Date posted 04/07/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Public Health Analyst Date posted 04/07/2020

## Contact CDC-Info

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348 Email CDC-INFO

## CDC Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * File Viewers & players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessibility

## Connect With CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Instagram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Media Library
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Public Health Media Library
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contact Us

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * USA.gov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM

