https://jobs.cdc.gov/benefitsLink: https://jobs.cdc.gov/benefits    
                Description: Our federal benefit package is among the best offered in the private and public sectors. It includes medical, dental, and life insurance; 10 paid holidays; paid vacation, personal, and sick time; flexible work schedules; transportation subsidy; and more. Eligibility depends on the position held.    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip to main content

![](https://tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/v3_0/img/mobile-logo.png) search

A-Z Index

Start of Search Controls

Search Form Controls

Search The CDC

Cancel Submit

Search The CDC

During the COVID-19 pandemic, CDC is working diligently to fulfill our
mission. New positions are posted often in a wide range of professions. Please
check our site frequently for your opportunity to contribute to the health
security of our nation. We are also currently accepting applications to fill
multiple Temporary Positions.

## Benefits

Close

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Careers Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Working at CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Students
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Veterans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Commissioned Corps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Overseas Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Job Seekers with Disabilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Career Fields
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Health Scientists & Public Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Medical Officers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Mission Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Executives & Scientists
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Benefits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hiring Events

Search Jobs

## Search Jobs

Keyword

Category Choose a job category Administrative Officer Architecture Biological
Science Technician Computer Science Contracting COVID-19 Education And
Training Technician Electronics Technical Emergency Management Specialist
General Arts And Information General Business And Industry General Education
And Training General Engineering General Health Science Grants Management
Human Resources Assistance Human Resources Management Information Technology
Management Interior Design Management And Program Analysis Medical Officer
Microbiology Miscellaneous Administration And Program Nurse Public Health
Program Specialist Quality Assurance Safety and Occupational Health Management
Social Science Statistics

State Choose a state Alaska Arizona California Colorado Connecticut Florida
Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kentucky Louisiana Maine Mangilao
Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Missouri Nebraska Nevada New Jersey
New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon
Pennsylvania Rhode Island San Juan South Carolina Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont
Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin

City Choose a city Albany Albuquerque Alexandria Anchorage Ashley Atlanta
Augusta Austin Baltimore Baton Rouge Berlin Blue Springs Boise Boston Boston
Bruceton Burlington Charleston Chicago Cincinnati Coalmont College Park
Columbia Columbia Columbus Concord Dallas Denver Des Moines Detroit Durham El
Paso Ellicott City Fairfield Fenton Fort Collins Fort Lauderdale Fort Worth
Frankfort Freeport Gainesville Hartford Hollywood Honolulu Houston Hyattsville
Indianapolis Keller Kensington Las Vegas Lincoln Los Angeles Lyndhurst Madison
Marlborough Miami Milton Minneapolis Monroe Morgantown Nashville New Orleans
New York Newark North Augusta North Miami Northampton Oklahoma City Perrysburg
Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland Potomac Providence Raleigh Richmond
Richmond Rockville Saint Charles Saint Paul Salt Lake City San Antonio San
Diego San Francisco Santa Fe Seattle Shoreline Silver Spring Spokane Suffern
Tallahassee Toledo Trenton Trenton Tulsa Vero Beach White Oak Woodlawn Yardley

Search Jobs Reset

## On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Salaries and Wages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Benefits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Incentives And Awards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 10 Paid Holidays
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Vacation, Personal, Sick, and Other Leave Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Employee Assistance and Referral Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Telework/Telecommute
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Continuing Education And Professional Development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Comprehensive Medical Benefits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Retirement Benefits and Pension Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Life Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Child Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Lactation Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Flexible Spending Accounts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Flexible Work Schedules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Wellness and Fitness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Community Subsidy Programs

# Explore the benefits of working at the CDC

## Salaries and Wages

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * General Schedule (GS) Locality Pay Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Federal Wage System Pay Schedules
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Executive & Senior Level Employee Pay Tables

### Note regarding Senior Biomedical Research Service (SBRS):

Salary for a SBRS member ranges from GS-15 to Executive Level 1 (EX-1). The
Director, CDC, has the authority to determine the pay of SBRS members below
EX-II, while pay between EX-II and EX-III must be approved by the Secretary,
HHS.

SBRS members are NOT eligible for the Physicians Comparability Allowance
(PCA), but are eligible for performance awards, recruitment, relocation, or
retention bonuses. They may qualify for incentive cash awards on the same
basis as other employees, with approval by the CDC Director. Only SBRS base
pay is considered for retirement and insurance purposes.

Learn More

## Benefits

Federal benefits are among the best offered in the private and public sectors.
Eligibility depends on the position held, and whether employment is full-time,
part-time or intermittent. Select the respective link below for general
information on benefits eligibility. You may also visit the Office of
Personnel Managementâs (OPM) benefits website for more information on
federal benefits.

## Incentives And Awards

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Periodic performance-based pay adjustments (within grade/step increases)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cost of Living Allowances (COLA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Special salary rates for selected positions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Recruitment and relocation incentives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Employee recognition through Incentive Awards Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * * Incentives and awards are not guaranteed.

## 10 Paid Holidays

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * New Yearâs Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Martin Luther King, Jr. Birthday
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Presidentâs Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Memorial Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Independence Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Labor Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Columbus Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Veterans Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Thanksgiving
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Christmas

## Vacation, Personal, Sick, and Other Leave Programs

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * 13 days of sick leave per year (4 hours accrued per pay period)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Annual leave days per year for vacation or other personal use:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 13 days per year for 0-2 years of federal service (4 hours accrued per pay period)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 20 days per year for 3-14 years of federal service (6 hours accrued per pay period)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * 26 days per year for 15+ years of federal service (8 hours accrued per pay period)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Family-Friendly Leave Policies, with flexibility for events such as birth or adoption of a child, care of a sick family member, or care of yourself in response to a serious health condition or emergency.

## Employee Assistance and Referral Programs

Employees and their immediate family members have access to confidential,
professional counseling and referral services to help them manage life events
(e.g., legal matters, finances, education, family matters, etc.)

## Telework / Telecommute Programs

Designed for qualified persons in telework-eligible positions, to work from
home on a recurring basis (up to 2 days a week) or non-recurring basis under
special circumstances.

## Continuing Education And Professional Development

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Innovative in-house training programs through CDC University
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Opportunity for external training (with approval and if funds are available)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Extensive library of online courses and resources available 24x7

## Comprehensive Medical Benefits

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Coverage available for employees, their spouses, and their dependent children under age 26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Many options, including fee-for-service or HMO plans with costs shared by the government. (The government pays a substantial amount of the premium cost and the employeeâs portion is paid through payroll deduction.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Medical examination is not required to obtain coverage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No restrictions due to age, current health, or pre-existing medical condition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Premiums as well as out-of-pocket costs can be paid with pre-tax dollars

## Retirement Benefits

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Thrift Savings Plan, a 401(k)-type plan with choice of investment funds and government matching contributions up to 5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * May be eligible for a defined benefit (based on years of employment and salary history)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * More information on the federal retirement plan is available at OPMâs retirement website.

## Life Insurance

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Group term life insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Optional additional benefits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * More information on the federal life insurance program is available at OPMâs Life Insurance website.

## Child Care

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Child care providers on or near the work site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Child care tuition subsidy provided for lower-income employees

## Lactation Support

The nationwide Lactation Support Program provides breastfeeding education,
lactation support services, return-to-work consults, worksite lactation rooms
(with hospital-grade breast pumps), and other resources for expectant and
nursing mothers.

## Flexible Spending

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The federal flexible spending account (FSA) is a pre-tax benefits program that allows you to set aside pre-tax dollars for qualifying medical, child care, or adult care expenses.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Care FSA to set aside up to 2,500 per covered employee in pre-tax dollars for out-of-pocket medical expenses and other benefits not covered by your health plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Dependent Care FSA to set aside up to 5,000 in pre-tax dollars to cover daycare or other expenses related to the care of a child or qualifying dependent adult
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Care FSA to set aside up to 2,500 per covered employee in pre-tax dollars for out-of-pocket medical expenses and other benefits not covered by your health plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * More information on FSAs account is available at OPMâs Flexible Spending Accounts website.

## Flexible Work Schedules

Several options are available, some of which allow you to adjust your work
hours to take a day off each pay period or, vary your daily arrival and
departure times. Credit Time to earn time off in exchange for extra hours
worked (requires approval).

## Wellness and Fitness

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Innovative wellness programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fitness centers and nutrition counseling
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Elder care and parenting support groups
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Eligibility for membership in the CDC Federal Credit Union
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Confidential referrals, resources, and professional counseling services for employees and qualified family members who may be facing personal or work-related problems

## Community Subsidy Programs

Our _GO!CardÂ®_ Program allows reimbursement for use of public transportation
(monthly maximum applies).

## Featured Jobs

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Scientist Date posted 04/08/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Scientist Date posted 04/08/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * IT Specialist Date posted 04/07/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Health Communications Specialist Date posted 04/07/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * IT Specialist Date posted 04/07/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Public Health Analyst Date posted 04/07/2020

Match Our Jobs To Your **LinkedIn Profile**

![LinkedIn
Logo](//tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/img/callout/callout-17896-12712.png)
Job Match

Use your LinkedIn profile to see which jobs at CDC may be a good fit for you.
Just click the icon to get started.

![Lab Employee](//tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/v3_0/img/lab-
employee-1.jpg)

## Scientific research is in CDC's DNA.

Join our team and apply science to solve important health problems.

![Lab Employee](//tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/v3_0/img/lab-
employee-2.jpg)

## Love lab work?

Conduct critical science at CDC and help protect our nation against dangerous
health threats.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ## Career Fields

![Career
Fields](//tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/img/thumb/thumb-77031-288123.jpg)

The Senior Executive Service (SES) is comprised of the men and women charged
with leading the continuing transformation of our government. This dedicated
corps of executives shares a commitment to public service and a set of
democratic values grounded in the fundamental ideals of our Constitution.

Learn More

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ## Working at CDC

![](//tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/img/thumb/thumb-77031-284190.jpg)

Whether your background is in medicine, health care, research, or operations,
you can help fight diseases and epidemics to make our nation, and the world, a
better place for all to live and thrive. Saving lives and protecting people
around the world--that's what CDC is all about.

Learn More

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * ## USPHS Commissioned Corps

![](//tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/img/thumb/thumb-77031-288118.jpg)

Join the thousands of highly qualified public health professionals as part of
the U.S. Public Health Service Corps. Overseen by the surgeon general, you
will be part of an elite and diverse team of professionals essential to public
health leadership and exemplary clinical service.

Learn More

## Contact CDC-Info

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348 Email CDC-INFO

## CDC Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

## Connect With CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Media Library
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Public Health Media Library
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Contact Us

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * USA.gov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

