https://jobs.cdc.gov/job/atlanta/health-communications-specialist/250/15926650Link: https://jobs.cdc.gov/job/atlanta/health-communications-specialist/250/15926650    
                Description: Learn more about applying for Health Communications Specialist at CDC    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip to main content

![](https://tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/v3_0/img/mobile-logo.png) search

A-Z Index

Start of Search Controls

Search Form Controls

Search The CDC

Cancel Submit

Search The CDC

During the COVID-19 pandemic, CDC is working diligently to fulfill our
mission. New positions are posted often in a wide range of professions. Please
check our site frequently for your opportunity to contribute to the health
security of our nation. We are also currently accepting applications to fill
multiple Temporary Positions.

## Careers at CDC

Close

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Careers Home
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Working at CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Students
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Veterans
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Commissioned Corps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Overseas Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Job Seekers with Disabilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Career Fields
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Scientists & Public Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Medical Officers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mission Support
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Executives & Scientists
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Benefits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hiring Events

Search Jobs

## Search Jobs

Keyword

Category Choose a job category Administrative Officer Architecture Biological
Science Technician Computer Science Contracting COVID-19 Education And
Training Technician Electronics Technical Emergency Management Specialist
General Arts And Information General Business And Industry General Education
And Training General Engineering General Health Science Grants Management
Human Resources Assistance Human Resources Management Information Technology
Management Interior Design Management And Program Analysis Medical Officer
Microbiology Miscellaneous Administration And Program Nurse Public Health
Program Specialist Quality Assurance Safety and Occupational Health Management
Social Science Statistics

State Choose a state Alaska Arizona California Colorado Connecticut Florida
Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kentucky Louisiana Maine Mangilao
Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Missouri Nebraska Nevada New Jersey
New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon
Pennsylvania Rhode Island San Juan South Carolina Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont
Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin

City Choose a city Albany Albuquerque Alexandria Anchorage Ashley Atlanta
Augusta Austin Baltimore Baton Rouge Berlin Blue Springs Boise Boston Boston
Bruceton Burlington Charleston Chicago Cincinnati Coalmont College Park
Columbia Columbia Columbus Concord Dallas Denver Des Moines Detroit Durham El
Paso Ellicott City Fairfield Fenton Fort Collins Fort Lauderdale Fort Worth
Frankfort Freeport Gainesville Hartford Hollywood Honolulu Houston Hyattsville
Indianapolis Keller Kensington Las Vegas Lincoln Los Angeles Lyndhurst Madison
Marlborough Miami Milton Minneapolis Monroe Morgantown Nashville New Orleans
New York Newark North Augusta North Miami Northampton Oklahoma City Perrysburg
Philadelphia Phoenix Pittsburgh Portland Potomac Providence Raleigh Richmond
Richmond Rockville Saint Charles Saint Paul Salt Lake City San Antonio San
Diego San Francisco Santa Fe Seattle Shoreline Silver Spring Spokane Suffern
Tallahassee Toledo Trenton Trenton Tulsa Vero Beach White Oak Woodlawn Yardley

Search Jobs Reset

Apply Now

![]( //tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/Full_v2_0/img/modal-header.jpg)

### You will now be directed to **USAJobs.gov** to start your application to
work at CDC

Continue Cancel

# Health Communications Specialist

**Job ID** HHS-CDC-M2-20-10784730 **Date posted** 04/07/2020 **Location**
Atlanta, Georgia

**Department:** Department of Health And Human Services  
 **Agency:** Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  
 **Job Announcement Number:** HHS-CDC-M2-20-10784730  
 **SALARY RANGE:** $80830.0 to $124955.0/Per Year  
 **OPEN PERIOD:** 2020-04-07 to 2020-04-22  
 **SERIES & GRADE: **GS--12/13  
  
 **AGENCY MARKETING STATEMENT:**  
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is the agency Americans
trust with their lives. As a global leader in public health, CDC is the
nation's premier health promotion, prevention, and preparedness agency.
Whether we are protecting the American people from public health threats,
researching emerging diseases, or mobilizing public health programs with our
domestic and international partners, we rely on our employees to make a real
difference in the health and well-being of people here and around the world.
This position is located in the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS),
Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), National Center for Injury
Prevention and Control (NCIPC), Atlanta, GA. CDC is an Equal Opportunity
Employer.  
  
 **JOB SUMMARY:**  
Serve as a health communication and marketing content expert and advisor for
HHS health, regulatory or human services programs.  
  
 **DUTIES:**  
[  
"As an Health Communications you will: Plan, apply, and evaluate various
communication science and marketing technique to achieve optimal program
result and promote positive health outcome. Develop, implement, and manage
national communication and marketing program, project and initiative for
various audience, including demonstration project. Develop, manage contract
and task order and the required documentation that supports the health
communication program and projects. Work with subject matter experts to plan,
develop, implement and evaluate informational and educational material
intended to reach broad national audience. Provide consultation and technical
assistance to internal and external group concerning health communication and
marketing program, project, and strategy. Other duties as assigned." ]  
  
 **REQUIREMENTS:**  
US Citizenship is required. Background Investigation may be required. One-year
probationary period may be required. Travel, transportation, and moving
expenses will be paid: No Bargaining Unit Position: Yes Drug Screening
Required: No Research position: No Promotion potential: Yes, This position has
promotion potential to GS-13. Promotion to the next grade level is at
management's discretion and is based on your meeting qualifications and time-
in-grade requirements, demonstrated ability to perform the higher level
duties, the continuing need for the higher level duties, and administrative
approval. Promotion to the next grade level is not guaranteed and no promise
of promotion is implied. Supervisory position: No Time in grade (TIG) must be
met within 30 days of the closing date of the announcement. All qualification
requirements must be met by the closing date of the announcement.  
  
 **QUALIFICATIONS REQUIRED:**  
Minimum Qualifications:  
Applicants must have one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to
the GS-12 grade level of in the Federal service as defined in the next
paragraph. Specialized Experience: Specialized experience is experience which
is directly related to the position which has equipped the applicant with the
particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs) to successfully perform the
duties of the position to include experience assisting in the development and
implementation of public health communications plans. Applicants must have one
year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-13 grade level of in
the Federal service as defined in the next paragraph. Specialized Experience:
Specialized experience is experience which is directly related to the position
which has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and
abilities (KSAs) to successfully perform the duties of the position to include
serve as a technical authority in the development and implementation of public
health communication plans. Documenting experience: In accordance with Office
of Personnel Management policy, federal employees are assumed to have gained
experience by performing duties and responsibilities appropriate for their
official series and grade level as described in their position description.
Experience that would not normally be part of the employee's position is
creditable, however, when documented by satisfactory evidence, such as a
signed memorandum from the employee's supervisor or an SF-50 or SF-52
documenting an official detail or other official assignment. The documentation
must indicate whether the duties were performed full time or, if part time,
the percentage of times the other duties were performed. It is expected that
this documentation is included in the employee's official personnel record. In
order to receive credit for experience in your resume that is not within the
official series and grade level of your official position, you must provide a
copy of the appropriate documentation of such experience as indicated above.  
  
 **HOW YOU WILL BE EVALUATED:**  
Once the application process is complete, a review of the resume and
supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to
the assessment questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job.
If, after reviewing your resume and/or supporting documentation, a
determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications and/or
experience, you may lose consideration for this position. Please follow all
instructions carefully. Errors or omissions may affect your eligibility. Your
qualifications will be evaluated and rated on the following competencies
(knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics):  
AccountabilityChannel Identification and SelectionCollaboration /
PartneringCreativity/InnovationCustomer ServiceDecision
MakingFlexibilityFoundations in Health Communication and
MarketingInterpersonal SkillsMessage Development and TestingPartner
EngagementProblem SolvingResults DrivenSelf-DirectionWritten Communication  
  
 **BENEFITS:**  
  
 **OTHER INFORMATION:**  
To Remain An Active Duty USPHS Commissioned Corps Officer Join more than 6,500
highly qualified public health professionals as part of the U.S. Public Health
Service. Overseen by the Surgeon General, you will be part of an elite and
diverse team of professionals essential to public health leadership and
exemplary clinical service. PHS Commissioned Corps Officers interested in
performing the duties of this position with the Commissioned Corps, you are
welcome to apply and receive a courtesy referral. Note that a courtesy
referral is not a competitive civil service process and does not provide civil
service status for the selected employee. Click Here for the comparison chart
of Commissioned Corps ranks to civil service, which advises you on potential
billet rankings. Additional selections may be made within the same
geographical location CDC-wide. Males born after December 31, 1959 must be
registered or exempt from Selective Service (see http://www.sss.gov). Career
Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP): For information on how to apply as an CTAP
eligible see http://opm.gov/rif/employee_guides/career_transition.asp#ictap.
To be well-qualified and exercise selection priority for this vacancy,
displaced Federal employees must be rated at 85.0 or above on the rating
criteria for this position. To view the questionnaire, click on the following
link:  
https://apply.usastaffing.gov/ViewQuestionnaire/10784730 If you are unable to
apply online or need to fax a document(s), view the following link for
information regarding an Alternate Application.  
  
  
 **HOW TO APPLY:**  
  
To apply for this position, you must complete the online application and
submit the documentation specified in the Required Documents section below. A
complete application package must be submitted by 11:59 PM (EST) on 04/22/2020
of this announcement to receive consideration. To begin, click Apply to access
the online application. You will need to be logged into your USAJOBS account
to apply. If you do not have a USAJOBS account, you will need to create one
before beginning the application. Follow the prompts to select your resumÃ©
and/or other supporting documents to be included with your application
package. You will have the opportunity to upload additional documents to
include in your application before it is submitted. Your uploaded documents
may take several hours to clear the virus scan process. After acknowledging
you have reviewed your application package, complete the Include Personal
Information section as you deem appropriate and click to continue with the
application process. You will be taken to the online application which you
must complete in order to apply for the position. Complete the online
application, verify the required documentation is included with your
application package, and submit the application. To verify the status of your
application, log into your USAJOBS account
(https://my.usajobs.gov/Account/Login), all of your applications will appear
on the Welcome screen. The Application Status will appear along with the date
your application was last updated. For information on what each Application
Status means, visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/application/status/.
If you cannot apply online: You are encouraged to apply online. If you are
unable to apply online, please use the Alternate Application link listed in
the Additional Information section of this vacancy announcement. Applicants
are strongly encouraged to apply online if at all possible. Applying online,
through your USAJOBS account, will expedite the application process and allow
you to check your application. If you utilize the Alternate Application
method, your USAJOBS account will not display this application and you will
not receive status updates.  
  
 **REQUIRED DOCUMENTS:**  
To apply for this position, you must submit a complete Application Package
which includes: Your rÃ©sumÃ© showing work schedule, hours worked per week,
dates of employment and duties performed. Other supporting documents: Cover
Letter, optional Most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action (The
SF-50 should include your tenure code in Item Number 24 of the document), if
applicable Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) documentation, if
applicable (e.g., Certification of Expected Separation, Reduction-In-Force
Separation Notice, or Notice of Proposed Removal; SF-50 that documents the RIF
separation action; and most recent performance appraisal). For Active Duty
USPHS Commissioned Corps Officers Submit your latest Personnel Order
(PHS-7063) as an USPHS Active Duty Commissioned Officer Failure to submit any
of the above mentioned required documents may result in loss of consideration
due to an incomplete application package. It is your responsibility to ensure
all required documents have been submitted. For RÃ©sumÃ© and Application Tips
visit: https://help.usajobs.gov/index.php/Tips.  
  
 **WHAT TO EXPECT NEXT:**  
Once the online questionnaire is received you will receive an acknowledgement
email that your submission was successful. The most highly qualified
candidates will be referred to the hiring manager for further consideration
and possible interview. We expect to make a selection within 45 days of the
closing date of this announcement. You will receive notice via email once this
process is completed (generally 4-6 weeks).  
  
 **AGENCY CONTACT INFO:**  
CDC HELPDESK  
1600 Clifton Road NE  
Atlanta GA US 30333  
 **Telephone:** (770) 488-1725  
 **Email:** HRCS@CDC.GOV  
  

Apply Now

Match Our Jobs To Your **LinkedIn Profile**

![LinkedIn
Logo](//tbcdn.talentbrew.com/company/250/img/callout/callout-17896-12712.png)
Job Match

Use your LinkedIn profile to see which jobs at CDC may be a good fit for you.
Just click the icon to get started.

## Featured Jobs

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Scientist Date posted 04/08/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Scientist Date posted 04/08/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * IT Specialist Date posted 04/07/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Communications Specialist Date posted 04/07/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * IT Specialist Date posted 04/07/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Public Health Analyst Date posted 04/07/2020

## Contact CDC-Info

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348 Email CDC-INFO

## CDC Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

## Connect With CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Media Library
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Public Health Media Library
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Us

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * USA.gov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

