https://www.cdc.gov/dpdx/microsporidiosis/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/dpdx/microsporidiosis/index.html    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: DPDx,  Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria (DPDM),  DPDx applications,  diagnosis of parasitic diseases,  diagnostic reference resources,  diagnostic quizzes,  parasites and parasitic diseases,  parasitic diseases,  training function,  emerging parasitic diseases ,  global,  worldwide,  United States and abroad,  biologic specimens,  life cycle,  laboratory,  health professionals,  specimens,  training and continuing education of laboratorians,  health facilities self-assessment,  laboratorians&#039; skills,  copyright free,  public domain., Parasitic Diseases    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

DPDx - Laboratory Identification of Parasites of Public Health Concern

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

![bannermenu](/dpdx/images/dpdx-2.jpg)

# Microsporidiosis

Minus

Related Pages

_[Anncaliia spp.] [Encephalitozoon cuniculi] [Encephalitozoon hellem]
[Encephalitozoon intestinalis (syn. Septata intestinalis)] [Tubulinosema
acridophagus] [Enterocytozoon bieneusi] [Nosema spp.] [Pleistophora sp.]
[Trachipleistophora spp.] [Vittaforma corneae (syn. Nosema corneum)]_

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Parasite Biology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Image Gallery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Laboratory Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Resources

### Causal Agents

The microsporidia are a group of unicellular intracellular parasites closely
related to fungi, although the nature of the relation to the kingdom Fungi is
not clear. The taxonomic position of this group has been debated and revised
repeatedly; historically, they were considered protozoa and often remain
managed by diagnostic parasitology laboratories. Microsporidia are
characterized by the production of resistant spores that vary in size (usually
1--4 µm for medically-important species). They possess a unique organelle, the
polar tubule or polar filament, which is coiled inside the spore as
demonstrated by its ultrastructure. Microsporidia also possess degenerated
mitochondria called mitosomes and lack a conventional Golgi apparatus.

To date, more than 1400 species belonging to over 200 genera have been
described as parasites infecting a wide range of vertebrate and invertebrate
hosts. There are at least 15 microsporidian species that have been identified
as human pathogens; the vast majority of cases being caused by
**_Enterocytozoon bieneusi,_** followed by some **_Encephalitozoon_** species
( _E. cuniculi,_ _E. hellem_ , _E. intestinalis_ ( _=Septata intestinalis_ )).
Other less frequently reported agents include members of the genera
**_Anncaliia_** (= _Brachiola_ ) ( _A. algerae_ , _A. connori, A. vesicularum_
), **_Microsporidium_** ( _M_. _ceylonensis_ , _M. africanum_ ),
**_Trachipleistophora_** ( _T. hominis, T. anthropophthera_ ), _**Nosema
ocularum**_ , _**Pleistophora**_ **_ronneafiei_** , **_Vittaforma corneae_**
(= _Nosema corneae_ ), **_Tubulinosema acridophagus_** , and an unknown
species likely belonging to **_Endoreticulatus_**.

###  Life Cycle

![Lifecycle](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/modules/Microsporidia_LifeCycle_19.jpg)

View Larger

The infective form of microsporidia is the resistant spore, which can persist
in the environment for months
![image](/dpdx/images/life_cycle_numbers/new/1.jpg) The spore then germinates,
rapidly everting its polar tubule which contacts the eukaryotic host cell
membrane ![image](/dpdx/images/life_cycle_numbers/new/2.jpg) . The spore then
injects the infective sporoplasm into the host cell through the polar tubule
![image](/dpdx/images/life_cycle_numbers/new/3.jpg) . Inside the cell, the
sporoplasm enters the proliferative phase marked by extensive multiplication
via merogony (binary fission or multiple fission), creating meronts
![image](/dpdx/images/life_cycle_numbers/new/4.jpg) . The location of this
developmental stage within the host cell varies by genus; it can occur either
in direct contact with the host cell cytosol ( _Enterocytozoon, Nosema_ ),
inside a parasitophorous vacuole of unknown origin ( _Encephalitozoon_ ), in a
parasite-secreted envelope ( _Pleistophora, Trachipleistophora_ ), or
surrounded by the host cell endoplasmic reticulum ( _Endoreticulatus,
Vittaforma_ ) ![image](/dpdx/images/life_cycle_numbers/new/5.jpg) .  Following
the proliferative phase, meronts undergo sporogony in which the thick spore
wall and invasion apparatus develop, creating sporonts and eventually mature
spores when all organelles are polarized. When the spores increase in number
and completely fill the host cell cytoplasm, the cell membrane is disrupted
and spores are released to the surroundings
![image](/dpdx/images/life_cycle_numbers/new/6.jpg) . These free mature spores
can infect new cells thus continuing the cycle.

Mature spores of intestinal-localizing species may be shed in feces, although
the route of transmission remains uncertain for many species. Exposure to
spores in water or in soil appears to be a potentially major route, based on
the finding of spores in these sources along with case histories. _E.
bieneusi_ and _V. corneae_ have been identified in surface waters, and spores
of _Nosema_ sp. (and likely _A. algerae_ ) have been identified in ditch
water. Cases of donor-derived microsporidiosis ( _Encephalitozoon cuniculi_ )
following bone marrow, kidney, liver, and heart transplantation have been
confirmed.

### Hosts

Many domestic and wild animals may be naturally infected with various
medically-important microsporidia. _Enterocytozoon bieneusi_ is generally
considered a human parasite, but has been detected in swine, primates, cattle,
cats, dogs, and several other mammals. Some, but not all, of these animal-
derived strains appear to represent zoonotic genotypes.

_Encephalitozoon cuniculi_ is endemic in several captive and wild rabbit
populations. It has also occasionally been found in domestic dogs, cats,
foxes, captive monkeys, and mink. Birds, especially psittacines (parrots,
parakeets, love birds, budgerigars, etc.), may represent reservoirs for
_Encephalitozoon hellem_. Unlike the other two important members of the genus,
_E. intestinalis_ is only rarely identified in animals other than humans.

The host range of the other microsporidia known to infect humans is not as
well known. No animal reservoir has been identified for _Vittaforma cornea._
_Pleistophora_ spp. are found in fish and reptiles, but spore morphology in
these species is inconsistent with that of the species implicated in human
infections ( _P. ronneafiei_ ). _Tubulinosema acridophagus,_
_Trachipleistophora_ spp., and _Anncaliia algerae_ are related to known insect
parasites, however, the significance of insects in transmission is unclear.

### Geographic Distribution

Microsporidia are being increasingly recognized as opportunistic infectious
agents worldwide. Efforts to characterize the global distribution of species
and genotypes are ongoing.

### Clinical Presentation

Human microsporidiosis represents an important and rapidly emerging
opportunistic disease. Historically it has been observed in severely
immunocompromised persons, particularly among persons with AIDS, however the
implementation of effective anti-retroviral therapies has reduced the
incidence in this group considerably. Cases are also known to occur in
immunocompetent individuals. The clinical manifestations of microsporidiosis
are very diverse, varying according to the causal species and route of
infection. Disseminated infection can be fatal. Of all of the manifestations
of microsporidiosis, _Enterocytozoon bieneusi-_ associated diarrhea is the
most common. Below is a table summarizing the typical sites of infection for
various species:

  Species | Known sites of localization  
---|---  
_Anncaliia algerae_ | Eyes, muscle  
_Anncaliia connori_ | Systemic  
_Anncaliia vesicularum_ | Muscle  
_Encephalitozoon cuniculi_ | Systemic  
_Encephalitozoon hellem_ | Eyes  
_Encephalitozoon intestinalis_ | Small intestine  
_Enterocytozoon bieneusi_ | Small intestine, biliary tree  
_Microsporidium_ spp. | Eyes  
_Nosema ocularum_ | Eyes  
_Pleistophora ronneafiei_ | Muscle  
_Trachipleistophora anthropopthera_ | Systemic  
_Trachipleistophora hominis_ | Eyes, muscle  
_Tubulinosema acridophagus_ | Systemic  
_Vittaforma corneae_ | Eyes  
  
Adapted from: Han, B. and Weiss, L.M., 2017. Microsporidia: obligate
intracellular pathogens within the fungal kingdom. _Microbiology Spectrum_ , 5
(2).

Electron micrographs of microsporidia.

![Figure A: Scanning electron micrograph showing an eukaryotic cell bursting
and releasing spores of <em>Encephalitozoon hellem</em> to the extracellular
medium.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/1/E_hellum_SEM_2012.jpg)

Figure A: Scanning electron micrograph showing an eukaryotic cell bursting and
releasing spores of _Encephalitozoon hellem_ to the extracellular medium.

![Figure B: Electron micrograph of an eukaryotic cell with <em>Encephalitozoon
intestinalis</em> spores and developing forms inside a septated
parasitophorous vacuole. The vacuole is a characteristic feature of this
microsporidian
species.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/1/Eintestinalis_spores_EM_2012.jpg)

Figure B: Electron micrograph of an eukaryotic cell with _Encephalitozoon
intestinalis_ spores and developing forms inside a septated parasitophorous
vacuole. The vacuole is a characteristic feature of this microsporidian
species.

![Figure C: Electron micrograph of an <em>Enterocytozoon bieneusi</em> spore.
Arrows indicate the double rows of polar tubule coils in cross section which
characterize a mature E. bieneusi
spore.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/1/msp_EM_arrows_2012.jpg)

Figure C: Electron micrograph of an _Enterocytozoon bieneusi_ spore. Arrows
indicate the double rows of polar tubule coils in cross section which
characterize a mature E. bieneusi spore.

![Figure D: Transmission electron micrograph of <em>E. intestinalis</em>
depicting developing forms inside a parasitophorous vacuole \(red arrows\)
with mature spores \(black
arrows\).](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/1/msp_parasit_vac2012.jpg)

Figure D: Transmission electron micrograph of _E. intestinalis_ depicting
developing forms inside a parasitophorous vacuole (red arrows) with mature
spores (black arrows).

![Figure E: Scanning electron micrograph of a microsporidian spore with an
extruded polar tubule inserted into a eukaryotic cell. The spore injects the
infective sporoplasms through its polar
tubule.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/1/msp_tubule_EM_2012.jpg)

Figure E: Scanning electron micrograph of a microsporidian spore with an
extruded polar tubule inserted into a eukaryotic cell. The spore injects the
infective sporoplasms through its polar tubule.

![Figure F: Transmission electron micrograph of a microsporidian spore with an
extruded polar tubule inserted into a eukaryotic cell. The spore injects the
infective sporoplasms through its polar tubule. Figure courtesy of Dr. Massimo
Scaglia, Laboratory of Clinical Parasitology, Institute of Infectious
Diseases, University-IRCCS San Matteo, Pavia,
Italy.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/1/msp_tubule_EM2_2012.jpg)

Figure F: Transmission electron micrograph of a microsporidian spore with an
extruded polar tubule inserted into a eukaryotic cell. The spore injects the
infective sporoplasms through its polar tubule. Figure courtesy of Dr. Massimo
Scaglia, Laboratory of Clinical Parasitology, Institute of Infectious
Diseases, University-IRCCS San Matteo, Pavia, Italy.

Microsporidia stained with Chromotrope 2R and Gram chromotrope stains.

![Figure A: <em>Encephalitozoon cuniculi</em> spores stained with Gram
Chromotrope.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/2/Ecuniculi_spores_gramchromo_2012.jpg)

Figure A: _Encephalitozoon cuniculi_ spores stained with Gram Chromotrope.

![Figure B: <em>Encephalitozoon cuniculi</em> spores stained with Gram
Chromotrope.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/2/Ecuniculi_spores_gramchromo2_2012.jpg)

Figure B: _Encephalitozoon cuniculi_ spores stained with Gram Chromotrope.

![Figure C: <em>Encephalitozoon cuniculi</em> spores stained with Gram
Chromotrope.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/2/Ecuniculi_spores_gramchromo3_2012.jpg)

Figure C: _Encephalitozoon cuniculi_ spores stained with Gram Chromotrope.

![Figure D: <em>Enterocytozoon bieneusi</em> spores stained with Chromotrope
2R.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/2/Ebieneusi_spores_chromo2012.jpg)

Figure D: _Enterocytozoon bieneusi_ spores stained with Chromotrope 2R.

![Figure E: Unidentified microsporidia stained with Chromotrope
2R.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/2/Microsporidia_2012.jpg)

Figure E: Unidentified microsporidia stained with Chromotrope 2R.

#####  _Encephalitozoon cuniculi_ in urine and kidney biopsy specimens,
stained with Ryan's modified trichrome stain.



The following images are from a case of disseminated microsporidiosis caused
by _Encephalitozoon cuniculi_ , courtesy of the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.
**Figures A-C** are from urine; **Figure D** is from a kidney biopsy specimen.

![Figure A: Spores of <em>E. cuniculi</em> from urine stained with Ryan's
modified trichrome \(Trichrome
blue\).](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/3/Ec_MAYO_Trichrome1.jpg)

Figure A: Spores of _E. cuniculi_ from urine stained with Ryan's modified
trichrome (Trichrome blue).

![Figure B: Spores of <em>E. cuniculi</em> from urine stained with Ryan's
modified trichrome \(Trichrome
blue\).](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/3/Ec_MAYO_Trichrome2.jpg)

Figure B: Spores of _E. cuniculi_ from urine stained with Ryan's modified
trichrome (Trichrome blue).

![Figure C: Spores of <em>E. cuniculi</em> from urine stained with Ryan's
modified trichrome.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/3/Ec_MAYO_Trichrome3.jpg)

Figure C: Spores of _E. cuniculi_ from urine stained with Ryan's modified
trichrome.

![Figure D: Spores of <em>E. cuniculi</em> in a kidney biopsy specimen stained
with Ryan's modified
trichrome.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/3/Ec_MAYO_KidneyTrichrome.jpg)

Figure D: Spores of _E. cuniculi_ in a kidney biopsy specimen stained with
Ryan's modified trichrome.

#####  _Tubulinosema acridophagus_ in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) specimens,
stained with Chromotrope 2R stain.



Spores of _Tubulinosema acridophagus_ in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL)
specimens, stained with Chromotrope 2R stain. The case from which the
following images were taken is courtesy of the National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD.

![Figure A: Spores of <em>T. acridophagus</em> in BAL specimens, stained with
Chromotrope 2R
stain.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/4/Tub_acrid_NIH_2012a.jpg)

Figure A: Spores of _T. acridophagus_ in BAL specimens, stained with
Chromotrope 2R stain.

![Figure B: Spores of <em>T. acridophagus</em> in BAL specimens, stained with
Chromotrope 2R
stain.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/4/Tub_acrid_NIH_2012b.jpg)

Figure B: Spores of _T. acridophagus_ in BAL specimens, stained with
Chromotrope 2R stain.

![Figure C: Spores of <em>Tubulinosema acridophagus</em> in \(BAL\) specimens,
stained with Chromotrope 2R
stain.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/4/Tub_acrid_NIH_2012c.jpg)

Figure C: Spores of _Tubulinosema acridophagus_ in (BAL) specimens, stained
with Chromotrope 2R stain.

![Figure D: Spores of <em>Tubulinosema acridophagus</em> in \(BAL\) specimens,
stained with Chromotrope 2R
stain.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/4/Tub_acrid_NIH_2012d.jpg)

Figure D: Spores of _Tubulinosema acridophagus_ in (BAL) specimens, stained
with Chromotrope 2R stain.

##### Ocular microsporidiosis stained with trichrome and Giemsa.



A case of ocular microsporidiosis. At the time of this writing, the species
had not been confirmed. All images courtesy of the Swedish Institute of
Communicable Diseases Control, Solna, Sweden.

![Figure A: Microsporidia spores from a corneal section, stained with
Giemsa.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/5/msp_Sweden1.jpg)

Figure A: Microsporidia spores from a corneal section, stained with Giemsa.

![Figure B: A single microsporidia spore from the same case as Figure A,
stained with Giemsa. In this image, the polar tubule has been
extruded.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/5/msp_Sweden2.jpg)

Figure B: A single microsporidia spore from the same case as Figure A, stained
with Giemsa. In this image, the polar tubule has been extruded.

![Figure C: Microsporidia spores from a corneal section, stained with
trichrome.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/5/msp_Sweden3.jpg)

Figure C: Microsporidia spores from a corneal section, stained with trichrome.

![Figure D: Microsporidia spores from a corneal section, stained with
trichrome.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/5/msp_Sweden4.jpg)

Figure D: Microsporidia spores from a corneal section, stained with trichrome.

_Encephalitozoon intestinalis_ stained with Calcofluor white.

![Figure A: <em>Encephalitozoon intestinalis</em> stained with Calcofluor
white.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/6/E_intestinalis_calcofluor_2012.jpg)

Figure A: _Encephalitozoon intestinalis_ stained with Calcofluor white.

Monoclonal antibody-based immunofluorescence identification of
_Encephalitozoon hellem_.

![Figure A: Monoclonal antibody-based immunofluorescence identification of
<em>Encephalitozoon
hellem</em>.](/dpdx/microsporidiosis/images/7/Ehellem_spores_IFA_2012.jpg)

Figure A: Monoclonal antibody-based immunofluorescence identification of
_Encephalitozoon hellem_.

#### Microscopy

Light microscopic examination of the stained clinical smears, especially the
fecal samples, is an inexpensive method of diagnosing microsporidial
infections even though it does not allow identification of microsporidia to
the species level. The most widely used staining technique is the Chromotrope
2R method or its modifications. This technique stains the spore and the spore
wall a bright pinkish red. Often, a darker-staining equatorial band is seen in
the middle of the spore. This technique, however, is lengthy and time
consuming and requires about 90 min. A recently developed "Quick-Hot Gram
Chromotrope technique" however, cuts down the staining time to less than 10
min and provides a good differentiation from the lightly stained background
fecal materials so that the spores stand out for easy visualization.  The
spores stain dark violet and the equatorial band is enhanced. In some cases
dark staining Gram positive granules are also clearly seen.  Chemofluorescent
agents such as Calcofluor white are also useful in the quick identification of
spores in fecal smears. The spores measure from 0.8 to 1.4 µm in the case of
_Enterocytozoon bieneusi_ , and 1.5 to 4 µm in _Anncaliia algerae_ ,
_Encephalitozoon_ spp., _Vittaforma corneae_ , and _Nosema_ spp.

Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) is still the gold standard and is
necessary for the identification of the microsporidian species, which is based
on internal features of the spore such as the number of polar tubule coils.
However, TEM is expensive, time consuming, and not feasible for routine
diagnosis.

#### Immunofluorescence Assays (IFA)

IFAs are available for microsporidia using monoclonal and/or polyclonal
antibodies.

#### Molecular Methods (PCR)

The CDC offers molecular identification of _Enterocytozoon bieneusi_ ,
_Encephalitozoon intestinalis_ , _Encephalitozoon hellem_ and _Encephalitozoon
cuniculi_ using species-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays.
Molecular identification of other microsporidia species can be attempted using
genera-specific primers and sequencing analysis on a case-by-case basis.

#### Diagnostic References:

Da Silva, A.J., Schwartz, D.A., Visvesvara, G.S., De Moura, H., Slemenda, S.B.
and Pieniazek, N.J., 1996. Sensitive PCR diagnosis of Infections by
_Enterocytozoon bieneusi_ (microsporidia) using primers based on the region
coding for small-subunit rRNA. _Journal of Clinical Microbiology_ , _34_ (4),
pp.986--987.

Del Aguila, C., Croppo, G.P., Moura, H., Da Silva, A.J., Leitch, G.J., Moss,
D.M., Wallace, S., Slemenda, S.B., Pieniazek, N.J. and Visvesvara, G.S., 1998.
Ultrastructure, immunofluorescence, Western blot, and PCR analysis of eight
isolates of _Encephalitozoon_ (= _Septata_ ) _intestinalis_ established in
culture from sputum and urine samples and duodenal aspirates of five patients
with AIDS. _Journal of Clinical Microbiology_ , _36_ (5), pp.1201--1208.

#### Laboratory safety

Microsporidial spores in diagnostic samples pose a risk of infection for
laboratory workers. All procedures should be conducted under BSL2 conditions,
observing standard precautions for stool samples and with all processing
performed in a biosafety cabinet. The use and/or manipulation of contact
lenses is discouraged and eye protection should always be worn. One case of
laboratory-acquired ocular microsporidiosis has been reported due to splash
exposure while not wearing appropriate eye protection.

### Suggested Reading

Han, B. and Weiss, L.M., 2017. Microsporidia: obligate intracellular pathogens
within the fungal kingdom. _Microbiology Spectrum_ , _5_ (2).

Watts, M.R., Chan, R.C., Cheong, E.Y., Brammah, S., Clezy, K.R., Tong, C.,
Marriott, D., Webb, C.E., Chacko, B., Tobias, V. and Outhred, A.C., 2014.
_Anncaliia algerae_ microsporidial myositis. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ ,
_20_ (2), p.185.

Meissner, E.G., Bennett, J.E., Qvarnstrom, Y., da Silva, A., Chu, E.Y.,
Tsokos, M. and Gea-Banacloche, J., 2012. Disseminated microsporidiosis in an
immunosuppressed patient. _Emerging Infectious Diseases_ , _18_ (7), p.1155.

Mathis, A., Weber, R. and Deplazes, P., 2005. Zoonotic potential of the
microsporidia. _Clinical Microbiology Reviews_ , _18_ (3), pp.423-445.

DPDx is an educational resource designed for health professionals and
laboratory scientists. For an overview including prevention, control, and
treatment visit www.cdc.gov/parasites/.

Page last reviewed: May 29, 2019

Content source: Global Health, Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria

home DPDx Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Parasites A-Z Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Monthly Case Studies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diagnostic Proceduresplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Blood Specimensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specimen Collection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specimen Processing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Shipment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Staining
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microscopic examination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Molecular diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Extraction of DNA from blood specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Detection of parasite antigens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Isolation of organisms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Special tests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Stool Specimensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specimen Collection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specimen Processing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Shipment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Staining
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Microscopic examination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Detection of parasite antigens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Molecular diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Extraction of Parasite DNA from Fecal Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Morphologic comparison of intestinal parasites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Serum/Plasma Specimensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specimen Requirements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Specimen Submission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Detection of Antibodies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Antibody Detection Test
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Other Specimensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Shipment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tissue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tissue specimens for free-living amebae(FLA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Isolation of Leishmania organisms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sputum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Aspirates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sputum, induced sputum, and bronchoalveolar avage (BAL)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Vaginal swabs for diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Procedure for demonstration of pinworm eggs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Urine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Whole Organisms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Diagnostic Assistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Us

Social_govd govD  Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

