https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/about/sudep/parents.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/about/sudep/parents.htm    
                Description: Children with uncontrolled epilepsy or frequent seizures are at the highest risk for SUDEP.     
                Keywords: SUDEP, Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy, children, SUDEP children    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# SUDEP Information for Parents of Children with Epilepsy

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                      * SUDEP in children
                      * Risk factors for SUDEP in children
                      * Steps you can take to reduce the risk of SUDEP for your child
                      * How do I talk to my child's doctor about SUDEP?
                      * References

###  SUDEP in children

Watching a child deal with the day-to-day challenge of epilepsy can be hard
for any parent. Researchers have found that Sudden Unexpected Death in
Epilepsy (SUDEP) is uncommon among younger aged children, but it is still an
important concern for some children. SUDEP refers to deaths in people with
epilepsy that are not caused by injury, drowning, or other known causes. Most,
but not all, cases of SUDEP occur during or immediately after a seizure. The
exact cause is not known, but these are possible factors:1-4

                      * **_Breathing._** A seizure may cause a person to have pauses in breathing (apnea). If these pauses last too long, they can reduce the oxygen in the blood to a life-threatening level. In addition, during a convulsive seizure a person's airway sometimes may get covered or obstructed, leading to suffocation.
                      * **_Heart rhythm._** Rarely, a seizure may cause a dangerous heart rhythm or even heart failure.
                      * **_Other causes and mixed causes._** SUDEP may result from more than one cause or a combination involving both breathing difficulty and abnormal heart rhythm.

###  Risk factors for SUDEP in children

![a young mother hugging her child](/epilepsy/images/about/sudep/SUDEP-parent-
child_300px.jpg)

Children with uncontrolled epilepsy or frequent seizures are at the highest
risk for SUDEP.  
In addition, other risk factors may include the following:

                      * Early-onset of epilepsy.2
                      * Developmental disabilities.2

###  Steps you can take to reduce the risk of SUDEP for your child

If your child has epilepsy, ask his or her doctor to discuss the risk of SUDEP
with you.  
The first and most important step to reduce your child's risk of SUDEP is to
make sure he or she _takes the seizure medicine as prescribed_.

If your child is taking seizure medicine and still having seizures, discuss
options for adjusting the medicine with his or her doctor. If seizures
continue, consider consulting an epilepsy specialist, if you are not already
seeing one. You can search for epilepsy specialists using the links listed
under Frequently Asked Questions.

Other possible steps you can take to reduce your child's risk of SUDEP may
include:

                      * Avoid seizure triggers, if these are known.2 Read more information about seizure triggersExternal on the Epilepsy Foundation website.
                      * Get enough sleep.1
                      * Train adults in the house in seizure first aid.

###  How do I talk to my child's health care provider about SUDEP?

When you decide to talk to your child's health care provider about SUDEP, you
may want to ask:

                      * What risk does my child have for SUDEP?
                      * If my child's risk for SUDEP is increased, what can I do to reduce his or her risk?
                      * What should I do if my child forgets to take his or her anti-epileptic drug (AED)?
                      * What steps should I take if it is decided to change my child's seizure medicine?
                      * What medicines provide the best seizure control for my child?
                      * Are there any specific activities my child should avoid?
                      * What instructions should I give family and friends if my child has a seizure?

### More about SUDEP

Visit the Epilepsy Foundation's SUDEPExternal page for more information and
resources.

###  References

                      1. Devinsky O. Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy. _New Engl J Med._ 2011;365:1801-11.
                      2. Tomson T, Nashef L, Ryvlin P. Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy: current knowledge and future directions. _Lancet Neurol._ 2008;7(11):1021-31.
                      3. So EL. What is known about the mechanisms underlying SUDEP? _Epilepsia_. 2008;49(Suppl. 9):93-98.
                      4. Nei M, Hays R. Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy. _Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep_. 2010;10(4):319-26.

Page last reviewed: May 8, 2018

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                      * About Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Seizure First Aid
                        * Fast Facts
                        * Types of Seizures
                        * FAQs
                        * SUDEPplus icon
                          * SUDEP Information for Parents
                      * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                        * Find Support
                        * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                          * Parentâs Guide
                          * Facilitatorâs Guide
                          * Resource Guide
                        * Clinical Trials 
                      * Preventing Epilepsy
                      * Data and Statistics
                      * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                        * MEW Network
                        * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                      * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                      * Publicationsplus icon
                        * Reports
                        * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                          * Scientific Articles by Year
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Parents
                        * Health Care Providers
                        * Training for Professionals
                        * Schools
                        * Communities
                      * Communications Centerplus icon
                        * Whatâs New
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                        * Featuresplus icon
                          * Spotlight on Seizures
                          * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                          * Epilepsy Self-Management
                          * Epilepsy in Children
                          * Get Seizure Smart!
                          * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                          * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                          * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                        * Podcasts
                        * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

##### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

