https://www.cdc.gov/std/herpes/screening.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/herpes/screening.htm    
                Description: Genital Herpes Screening - STD Information from CDC.    
                Keywords: Genital Herpes, Herpes, herpies, HSV, Genital Ulcerative Disease, Screening, STD, CDC    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Genital Herpes

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Genital Herpes Screening FAQ

Minus

Related Pages

Genital herpes is a common sexually transmitted disease (STD). It is caused by
herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) or herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2).
Most people who have HSV-1 or HSV-2 don't have symptoms.

There are a lot of questions about herpes tests, and this page will help you
understand CDC's herpes testing recommendations.

![Genital Herpes - Fact Sheet](/std/herpes/images/fs-2012.gif)  
For basic information about Genital Herpes, see the Fact Sheet.

###  Genital herpes is common. Why doesn't CDC recommend testing everyone for
this STD?

CDC does not recommend herpes testing for people without symptoms. This is
because diagnosing genital herpes in someone without symptoms has not shown
any change in their sexual behavior (e.g., wearing a condom or not having sex)
nor has it stopped the virus from spreading. Also, false positive test results
(test results that say you have herpes when you do not actually have the
virus) are possible. Even if you do not have symptoms, you should talk openly
and honestly about your sexual history with your doctor to find out if you
should be tested for any STDs, including herpes.

Although CDC does not recommend that everyone get tested for herpes, herpes
testing may be useful in some situations. Herpes blood tests (also called
type-specific HSV serologic tests) _might_ be useful

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * If you have genital symptoms that could be related to herpes,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * If you have (or have had) a sex partner with genital herpes, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * If you want a complete STD exam, especially if you have multiple sex partners.

**Please note that while a herpes blood test can help determine if you have
herpes infection, it will not be able to tell you who gave you the
infection.**

### Why is testing for genital herpes only recommended for people who have
symptoms?

CDC recommends herpes testing for people who have genital symptoms for herpes
to confirm that they are infected. These events are called "having an
outbreak," and they appear as blisters on or around the genitals, rectum, or
mouth. The blisters break and leave painful sores that may take weeks to heal.
Testing allows a doctor to talk with you about what to expect in the future,
which medications are available to help manage any symptoms, and how you can
lower your risk of spreading the infection to your sex partner(s).

If you have a partner with genital herpes, testing can tell if you also have
the virus. If you are not infected, your doctor can talk to you about ways to
lower your risk of getting genital herpes. If you are a pregnant woman and
have a partner with genital herpes, it is very important to get tested.  If
you get genital herpes during pregnancy your baby could also become infected.
Herpes infections in babies can be life-threatening. If you are infected, your
doctor will talk to you about your diagnosis and the possible symptoms of
genital herpes. In addition, herpes blood testing may be useful if you are
seeking a complete STD exam, especially if you have multiple sex partners.

###  Is a blood test for genital herpes included when I ask to be tested for
"everything" (all STDs)? Why does CDC recommend testing for other STDs, but
not herpes?

Herpes blood tests may or may not be included. Your doctor chooses STD tests
based on your sexual behaviors (number of sex partners, if condoms are used
every time, etc.), as well as how common the infection is in the area that you
live in. This is why you should have an open and honest discussion with your
doctor about your sex practices and history. When you go in for STD testing,
it is important to ask your doctor which infections you _are_ and _are not_
being tested for, and why.

STD tests are usually done for infections that have serious outcomes if they
are not treated. For example, finding and treating curable STDs like chlamydia
can stop them from causing serious complications like infertility (the
inability to get pregnant) in women. Genital herpes does not usually result in
serious outcomes in healthy, non-pregnant adults. More often, the stigma and
shame from a genital herpes infection can be more troubling to someone who is
infected than the disease itself. If you are worried about genital herpes, you
should talk with your doctor about whether you should be tested.

### Wouldn't testing everyone stop the spread of genital herpes?

We don't know. There is no evidence that diagnosing genital herpes with a
blood test in someone without symptoms would change their sexual behavior and
stop the virus from spreading. In addition, without knowing the benefits of
testing, the risk of shaming and stigmatizing people outweighs the potential
benefits. For these reasons, testing everyone for herpes is not recommended at
this time.

### If a pregnant woman gets genital herpes is there a chance her baby can get
infected?

Yes. Even though adults with genital herpes may not have any symptoms, herpes
infections in babies can be life-threatening. Women who get genital herpes
during late pregnancy have a very high risk for having a baby with herpes
infection, and these women may not even know they are infected. Women who get
herpes during early pregnancy, or who are infected before they get pregnant
can also spread herpes to their babies. Most babies with herpes get infected
as they come into contact with the herpes virus while passing through the
birth canal, but infection can also occur before birth (congenital infection)
or in the weeks after birth.

If you are pregnant and think that you or your partner may have genital
herpes, tell your doctor. Your doctor can order testing and can talk to you
about ways to lower your baby's risk for infection.

### Are people with genital herpes at increased risk of getting infected with
HIV?

Yes, studies show that HSV-2 infection increases the risk of getting HIV
infection, even when there are no symptoms of genital herpes. HSV-2 infection
can cause tiny breaks in the genital and anal area that allow HIV to enter
into the body. Herpes infection also attracts the type of cells that HIV
infects ("target cells") to the genital area. This increases the chance of
getting HIV, if exposed.

### Can testing and treating genital herpes decrease the risk for HIV
infection?

No. Studies show that testing for genital herpes and treating with herpes
medications does not lower the risk of getting HIV.

### Why are there state-by-state data for common STDs, but not for genital
herpes?

Syphilis, gonorrhea, and chlamydia are "notifiable" diseases in the United
States, but herpes is not. A disease is "notifiable" if healthcare providers
in all 50 states are required by law to report the diagnosis to their state or
local health departments. CDC is also notified, and publishes state-by-state
data for these infections. Because herpes infections are not notifiable
infections by law, CDC is not able to provide state-by-state data. Public
health surveillance for herpes infections is mainly done through population-
based, national surveys, such as the National Health and Nutrition Examination
Survey (NHANES).

### Who decides which diseases are notifiable and why?

The Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE) works with CDC to
determine if a particular disease should be nationally notifiable. To make
this decision, they follow a number of public health principles, for example,
(1) whether or not it is treatable; (2) whether or not it is preventable; (3)
how common it is; (4) whether or not a public health response is needed; (5)
whether or not there is a good source of information on the number of cases;
and (6) whether or not it represents a significant public health threat (For
example, how severe it is). Information on HSV-1 and HSV-2 infections already
exists in NHANES, so herpes infections have not been classified as notifiable
diseases.

### Why have false positive tests been used as an argument against routine
testing for genital herpes, but not for other STDs, which can also have false
positives?

False positive test results are test results that say a person has a disease
or condition when they do not actually have it. False positive results can
occur with many diagnostic tests, including STD tests. The chances of false
positive results increase as the likelihood of the infection decreases in the
person being tested. False positive HSV-2 results can happen, especially in
people who are at low risk for a herpes infection. Also, we do not know if
people who test positive for herpes will change their sexual behavior as a
result of a positive test. This tells us that the harm of a possible false
positive test may be a greater concern than the benefits of an actual
diagnosis. Unlike curable STDs, such as chlamydia, herpes infections are life-
long, so it is especially important to avoid a false positive test.

### Is Alzheimer's disease related to HSV-1 infection?

Alzheimer's disease is a progressive brain disease that develops as a result
of a complex series of events occurring in the brain over a long period of
time. The causes of Alzheimer's disease may include genetic, environmental,
and other factors. Several different factors have been statistically linked to
Alzheimer's disease, including HSV-1 infection. However, some investigations
suggest that viruses other than HSV-1 may influence Alzheimer's disease. More
research is needed to determine whether or not there is a causal link between
HSV-1 infection and Alzheimer's disease.

### I tested positive for genital herpes. Where can I find the latest
information about ongoing genital herpes research, including clinical trials?

The U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH), National Institute of Allergy
and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) supports research to develop prevention
methods and treatments for genital herpes. Details about current research
efforts can be found on the NIAID websiteExternal. NIH also maintains a
database with information about clinical trials around the worldExternal. This
database includes information on all genital herpes studies that are actively
recruiting volunteers.

Page last reviewed: February 9, 2017

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Herpes

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts & Brochures expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Basic Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Screening FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Archive

STDs Home Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Genital Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * STDs & Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Other STDs

#### See Also

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reproductive Health

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

