https://www.cdc.gov/std/herpes/stdfact-herpes-detailed.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/herpes/stdfact-herpes-detailed.htm    
                Description: Genital Herpes Fact Sheet from CDC.  What is Herpes?  How common is Herpes?  How do people get Herpes?  And more...    
                Keywords: Genital Herpes,  Herpes,  herpies,  HSV,  Genital Ulcerative Disease,  Facts,  Treatment,  Statistics,  STD,  CDC    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Genital Herpes

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Genital Herpes - CDC Fact Sheet (Detailed)

Minus

Related Pages

Basic Fact Sheet | **Detailed Version**

Detailed fact sheets are intended for physicians and individuals with specific
questions about sexually transmitted diseases. Detailed fact sheets include
specific testing and treatment recommendations as well as citations so the
reader can research the topic more in depth.

### What is genital herpes?

Genital herpes is a sexually transmitted disease (STD) caused by the herpes
simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) or type 2 (HSV-2).

### How common is genital herpes?

Genital herpes infection is common in the United States. CDC estimates that,
annually, 776,000 people in the United States get new genital herpes
infections.1 Nationwide, 11.9 % of persons aged 14 to 49 years have HSV-2
infection (12.1% when adjusted for age).2 However, the prevalence of genital
herpes infection is  higher than that because an increasing number of genital
herpes infections are caused by HSV-1. 3 Oral HSV-1 infection is typically
acquired in childhood; because the prevalence of oral HSV-1 infection has
declined in recent decades, people may have become more susceptible to
contracting a genital herpes infection from HSV-1. 4

HSV-2 infection is more common among women than among men; the percentages of
those infected during 2015-2016 were 15.9% versus 8.2% respectively, among 14
to 49 year olds. 2 This is possibly because genital infection is more easily
transmitted from men to women than from women to men during penile-vaginal
sex. 5 HSV-2 infection is more common among non-Hispanic blacks (34.6%) than
among non-Hispanic whites (8.1%). 2 A previous analysis found that these
disparities, exist even among persons with similar numbers of lifetime sexual
partners. Most infected persons may be unaware of their infection; in the
United States, an estimated 87.4% of 14 to 49 year olds infected with HSV-2
have never received a clinical diagnosis. 6

The age-adjusted percentage of persons in the United States infected with
HSV-2 decreased from 18.0% in 1999-2000 to 12.1% in 2015-2016. 2

### How do people get genital herpes?

Infections are transmitted through contact with HSV in herpes lesions, mucosal
surfaces, genital secretions, or oral secretions. 5 HSV-1 and HSV-2 can be
shed from normal-appearing oral or genital mucosa or skin. 7,8 Generally, a
person can only get HSV-2 infection during genital contact with someone who
has a genital HSV-2 infection. However, receiving oral sex from a person with
an oral HSV-1 infection can  result in getting a genital HSV-1 infection. 4
Transmission commonly occurs from contact with an infected partner who does
not have visible lesions and who may not know that he or she is infected. 7 In
persons with asymptomatic HSV-2 infections, genital HSV shedding occurs on
10.2% of days, compared to 20.1% of days among those with symptomatic
infections. 8

### What are the symptoms of genital herpes?

Most individuals infected with HSV are asymptomatic or have very mild symptoms
that go unnoticed or are mistaken for another skin condition. 9 When symptoms
do occur, herpes lesions typically appear as one or more vesicles, or small
blisters, on or around the genitals, rectum or mouth. The average incubation
period for an initial herpes infection is 4 days (range, 2 to 12) after
exposure. 10 The vesicles break and leave painful ulcers that may take two to
four weeks to heal after the initial herpes infection. 5,10 Experiencing these
symptoms is referred to as having a first herpes "outbreak" or episode.

Clinical manifestations of genital herpes differ between the first and
recurrent (i.e., subsequent) outbreaks. The first outbreak of herpes is often
associated with a longer duration of herpetic lesions, increased viral
shedding (making HSV transmission more likely) and systemic symptoms including
fever, body aches, swollen lymph nodes, or headache. 5,10 Recurrent outbreaks
of genital herpes are common, and many patients who recognize recurrences have
prodromal symptoms, either localized genital pain, or tingling or shooting
pains in the legs, hips or buttocks, which occur hours to days before the
eruption of herpetic lesions. 5 Symptoms of recurrent outbreaks are typically
shorter in duration and less severe than the first outbreak of genital herpes.
5 Long-term studies have indicated that the number of symptomatic recurrent
outbreaks may decrease over time. 5 Recurrences and subclinical shedding are
much less frequent for genital HSV-1 infection than for genital HSV-2
infection.5

### What are the complications of genital herpes?

Genital herpes may cause painful genital ulcers that can be severe and
persistent in persons with suppressed immune systems, such as HIV-infected
persons. 5 Both HSV-1 and HSV-2 can also cause rare but serious complications
such as aseptic meningitis (inflammation of the linings of the brain). 5
Development of extragenital lesions (e.g. buttocks, groin, thigh, finger, or
eye) may occur during the course of infection. 5

Some persons who contract genital herpes have concerns about how it will
impact their overall health, sex life, and relationships. 5,11 There can also
be considerable embarrassment, shame, and stigma associated with a herpes
diagnosis that can substantially interfere with a patient's relationships. 10
Clinicians can address these concerns by encouraging patients to recognize
that while herpes is not curable, it is a manageable condition. 5 Three
important steps that providers can take for their newly-diagnosed patients
are: giving information, providing support resources, and helping define
treatment and prevention options. 12 Patients can be counseled that risk of
genital herpes transmission can be reduced, but not eliminated, by disclosure
of infection to sexual partners, 5 avoiding sex during a recurrent outbreak, 5
use of suppressive antiviral therapy, 5,10 and consistent condom use. 7 Since
a diagnosis of genital herpes may affect perceptions about existing or future
sexual relationships, it is important for patients to understand how to talk
to sexual partners about STDs. One resource can be found here:
www.gytnow.org/talking-to-your-partnerexternal icon

There are also potential complications for a pregnant woman and her newborn
child. See "How does herpes infection affect a pregnant woman and her baby?"
below for information about this.

![HIV/AIDS & STDs](/std/hiv/images/hiv79.jpg)

  
HIV/AIDS & STDs

### What is the link between genital herpes and HIV?

Genital ulcerative disease caused by herpes makes it easier to transmit and
acquire HIV infection sexually. There is an estimated 2- to 4-fold increased
risk of acquiring HIV, if individuals with genital herpes infection are
genitally exposed to HIV. 13-15 Ulcers or breaks in the skin or mucous
membranes (lining of the mouth, vagina, and rectum) from a herpes infection
may compromise the protection normally provided by the skin and mucous
membranes against infections, including HIV. 14 In addition, having genital
herpes increases the number of CD4 cells (the target cell for HIV entry) in
the genital mucosa. In persons with both HIV and genital herpes, local
activation of HIV replication at the site of genital herpes infection can
increase the risk that HIV will be transmitted during contact with the mouth,
vagina, or rectum of an HIV-uninfected sex partner. 14

###  How does genital herpes affect a pregnant woman and her baby?

Neonatal herpes is one of the most serious complications of genital
herpes.5,16 Healthcare providers should ask all pregnant women if they have a
history of genital herpes.11 Herpes infection can be passed from mother to
child during pregnancy or childbirth, or babies may be infected shortly after
birth, resulting in a potentially fatal neonatal herpes infection. 17 Infants
born to women who acquire genital herpes close to the time of delivery and are
shedding virus at delivery are at a much higher risk for developing neonatal
herpes, compared with women who have recurrent genital herpes . 16,18-20 Thus,
it is important that women avoid contracting herpes during pregnancy. Women
should be counseled to abstain from intercourse during the third trimester
with partners known to have or suspected of having genital herpes. 5,11

While women with genital herpes may be offered antiviral medication late in
pregnancy through delivery to reduce the risk of a recurrent herpes outbreak,
third trimester antiviral prophylaxis has not been shown to decrease the risk
of herpes transmission to the neonate.11,21,22 Routine serologic HSV screening
of pregnant women is not recommended. 11 However, at onset of labor, all women
should undergo careful examination and questioning to evaluate for presence of
prodromal symptoms or herpetic lesions. 11 If herpes symptoms are present a
cesarean delivery is recommended to prevent HSV transmission to the
infant.5,11,23 There are detailed guidelines for how to manage asymptomatic
infants born to women with active genital herpes lesions.24

### How is genital herpes diagnosed?

The preferred HSV tests for patients with active genital ulcers are detection
of HSV DNA by nucleic acid amplification tests such as polymerase chain
reaction (PCR), or isolation by viral culture.11 HSV culture requires
collection of a sample from the lesion and, once viral growth is seen,
specific cell staining to differentiate between HSV-1 and HSV-2.11,25,26
However, culture sensitivity is low, especially for recurrent lesions, and
declines as lesions heal. 11,26 PCR is more sensitive, allows for more rapid
and accurate results, and is increasingly being used. 25 Because viral
shedding is intermittent, failure to detect HSV by culture or PCR does not
indicate an absence of HSV infection. 11 Tzanck preparations are insensitive
and nonspecific and should not be used. 11

Herpes serologic tests are blood tests that detect antibodies to the herpes
virus.11,26 Providers should only request type-specific glycoprotein G
(gG)-based serologic assays when serology is performed for their patients.11
Several ELISA-based serologic tests are FDA approved and available
commercially. While the presence of HSV-2 antibody can be presumed to reflect
genital infection, patients should be counseled that the presence of HSV-1
antibody may represent either oral or genital infection. 26 The sensitivities
of glycoprotein G type-specific serologic tests for HSV-2 vary from 80-98%;
false-negative results might be more frequent at early stages of infection.11
The most commonly used test, HerpeSelect HSV-2 Elisa might be falsely positive
at low index values (1.1-3.5).11

Such low values should be confirmed with another test such as Biokit or the
Western Blot.11 Negative HSV-1 results should be interpreted with caution
because some ELISA-based serologic tests are insensitive for detection of
HSV-1 antibody.11 IgM testing for HSV-1 or HSV-2 is not useful, because IgM
tests are not type-specific and might be positive during recurrent genital or
oral episodes of herpes.27

For the symptomatic patient, testing with both virologic and serologic assays
can determine whether it is a new infection or a newly-recognized old
infection.26 A primary infection would be supported by a positive virologic
test and a negative serologic test, while the diagnosis of recurrent disease
would be supported by positive virologic and serologic test results.26

CDC does not recommend screening for HSV-1 or HSV-2 in the general population.
11 Several scenarios where type-specific serologic HSV tests may be useful
include

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Patients with recurrent genital symptoms or atypical symptoms and negative HSV PCR or culture;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Patients with a clinical diagnosis of genital herpes but no laboratory confirmation;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Patients who report having a partner with genital herpes;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Patients presenting for an STD evaluation (especially those with multiple sex partners);
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Persons with HIV infection; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * MSM at increased risk for HIV acquisition.7

Please note that while type-specific herpes testing can determine if a person
is infected with HSV-1 or HSV-2 (or both), _there is no commercially available
test to determine if a herpes infection in one individual was acquired from
another specific person._  CDC encourages patients to discuss any herpes
questions and concerns with their health care provider or seek counsel at an
STD clinic.

### Is there a cure or treatment for herpes?

There is no cure for herpes. Antiviral medications can, however, prevent or
shorten outbreaks during the period of time the person takes the medication.11
In addition, daily suppressive therapy (i.e., daily use of antiviral
medication) for herpes can reduce the likelihood of transmission to
partners.11

There is currently no commercially available vaccine that is protective
against genital herpes infection. Candidate vaccines are in clinical trials.

### How can herpes be prevented?

Correct and consistent use of latex condoms can reduce, but not eliminate, the
risk of transmitting or acquiring genital herpes because herpes virus shedding
can occur in areas that are not covered by a condom.28,29

The surest way to avoid transmission of STDs, including genital herpes, is to
abstain from sexual contact, or to be in a long-term mutually monogamous
relationship with a partner who has been tested for STDs and is known to be
uninfected.

Persons with herpes should abstain from sexual activity with partners when
herpes lesions or other symptoms of herpes are present. It is important to
know that even if a person does not have any symptoms, he or she can still
infect sex partners. Sex partners of infected persons should be advised that
they may become infected and they should use condoms to reduce the risk. Sex
partners can seek testing to determine if they are infected with HSV.

Daily treatment with valacyclovir decreases the rate of HSV-2 transmission in
discordant, heterosexual couples in which the source partner has a history of
genital HSV-2 infection . 30 Such couples should be encouraged to consider
suppressive antiviral therapy as part of a strategy to prevent transmission,
in addition to consistent condom use and avoidance of sexual activity during
recurrences.

![National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers, STD Clinical
Consultation Network](/std/images/logos/SCCNbutton.jpg)external icon

Health care providers with STD consultation requests can contact the STD
Clinical Consultation Network (STDCCN). This service is provided by the
National Network of STD Clinical Prevention Training Centers and operates five
days a week. STDCCN is convenient, simple, and free to health care providers
and clinicians. More information is available at www.stdccn.orgexternal icon.

### Where can I get more information?

Division of STD Prevention (DSTDP)  
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

**Personal health inquiries and information about STDs:**

CDC-INFO Contact Center  
1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636)  
TTY: (888) 232-6348  
Contact CDC-INFO

**Resources:**

CDC National Prevention Information Network (NPIN)  
P.O. Box 6003  
Rockville, MD 20849-6003  
1-800-458-5231  
1-888-282-7681 Fax  
1-800-243-7012 TTY  
E-mail: npin-info@cdc.gov

American Sexual Health Association (ASHA)external icon  
P. O. Box 13827  
Research Triangle Park, NC 27709-3827  
1-800-783-9877

#### Sources:

1\. Satterwhite CL, Torrone E, Meites E, et al. Sexually transmitted
infections among US women and men: prevalence and incidence estimates, 2008.
_Sex Transm Dis_ , 2013. **40** (30):187-93

2\. McQuillan G, Kruszon-Moran D, Flagg EW, Paulose-Ram R. Prevalence of
herpes simplex virus type 1 and type 2 in persons aged 14-49: United States,
2015-2016\. NCHS Data Brief, no 304. Hyattsville, MD: National Center for
Health Statistics. 2018

3\. Xu F, Sternberg MR, Kottiri BJ, et al. Trends in herpes simplex virus type
1 and type 2 seroprevalence in the United States. _JAMA_ , 2006. **296** (8):
964-73.

4\. Bradley H, Markowitz L, Gibson T, et al. Seroprevalence of herpes simplex
virus types 1 and 2--United States, 1999-2010\. _J Infect Dis_ , 2014. **209**
(3):325-33.

5\. Corey L, Wald A. Genital Herpes. In: Holmes KK, Sparling PF, Stamm WE, et
al. (editors). _Sexually Transmitted Diseases_. 4th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill;
2008: 399-437.

6\. Fanfair RN, Zaidi A, Taylor LD, Xu F, Gottlieb S, Markowitz L. Trends in
seroprevalence of herpes simplex virus type 2 among non-Hispanic blacks and
non-Hispanic whites aged 14 to 49 years-United States, 1988 to 2010. _Sex
Transm Dis_ , 2013. **40** (11):860-4.

7\. Mertz GJ. Asymptomatic shedding of herpes simplex virus 1 and 2:
implications for prevention of transmission. _J Infect Dis_ , 2008. **198**
(8): 1098-1100.

8\. Tronstein E, Johnston C, Huang M, et al. Genital shedding of herpes
simplex virus among symptomatic and asymptomatic persons with HSV-2 infection.
_JAMA_ , 2011. **305** (14): 1441-9.

9\. Wald A, Zeh J, Selke S, et al. Reactivation of genital herpes simplex
virus type 2 infection in asymptomatic seropositive persons. _New Engl J Med_
, 2000. **342** (12): 844-50.

10\. Kimberlin DW, Rouse DJ. Genital Herpes. _N Engl J Med_ , 2004. **350**
(19): 1970-7.

11\. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Treatment Guidelines, 2015. _MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep Recomm Rep_ , 2015.
**64** (RR-3): 27-32.

12\. Alexander L, Naisbett B. Patient and physician partnerships in managing
genital herpes. _J Infect Dis_ , 2002. **186** (Suppl 1): S57-S65.

13\. Freeman EE, Weiss HA, Glynn JR, Cross PL, Whitworth JA, Hayes RJ. Herpes
simplex virus 2 infection increases HIV acquisition in men and women:
systematic review and meta-analysis of longitudinal studies. _AIDS_ , 2006.
**20** (1): 73-83.

14\. Barnabas RV, Celum C. Infectious co-factors in HIV-1 transmission. Herpes
simplex virus type-2 and HIV-1: new insights and interventions. _Curr HIV Res_
, 2012. **10** (3): 228-37

15\. Corey L, Wald A, Celum CL, Quinn TC. The effects of herpes simplex
virus-2 on HIV-1 acquisition and transmission: a review of two overlapping
epidemics. _JAIDS_ , 2004. **35** (5): 435-45.

16\. Brown ZA, Selke S, Zeh J, et al. The acquisition of herpes simplex virus
during pregnancy. _N Engl J Med_ , 1997. **337** (8): 509-15.

17\. Kimberlin DW. Herpes simplex virus infections in the newborn. _Semin
Perinatol_ , 2007. **31** (2): 19-25.

18\. Brown ZA, Wald A, Morrow RA, Selke S, Zeh J, Corey L. Effect of serologic
status and cesarean delivery on transmission rates of herpes simplex virus
from mother to infant. _JAMA_ , 2003. **289** (2):203-9

19\. Brown ZA, Benedetti J, Ashley R, et al. Neonatal herpes simplex virus
infection in relation to asymptomatic maternal infection at the time of labor.
_N Engl J Med_ , 1991. **324** (18):1247-52

20\. Brown ZA, Vontver LA, Benedetti J, et al. Effects on infants of a first
episode of genital herpes during pregnancy. _N Engl J Med_ , 1987. **317**
(20):1246-51

21\. Hollier LM, Wendel GD. Third trimester antiviral prophylaxis for
preventing maternal genital herpes simplex virus (HSV) recurrences and
neonatal infection. _Cochrane Database Syst Rev_ , 2008. Issue 1: Art. No.
CD004946.

22\. Pinninti SG, Angara R, Feja KN, et al. Neonatal herpes disease following
maternal antenatal antiviral suppressive therapy: a multicenter case series.
_J Pediatr_ , 2012. **161** (1):134-8.

23\. American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG). ACOG Practice
Bulletin. Clinical management guidelines for obstetrician-gynecologists. No.
82 June 2007. Management of herpes in pregnancy. _Obstet Gynecol,_ 2007\.
**109** (6): 1489-98.

24\. Kimberlin DW, Balely J, Committee on Infectious Diseases, Committee on
Fetus and Newborn.  Guidance on management of asymptomatic neonates born to
women with active genital herpes lesions. _Pediatrics,_ 2013\. **131**
(2):e635-46.

25\. Wald A, Huang ML, Carrell D, Selke S, Corey L. Polymerase chain reaction
for detection of herpes simplex virus (HSV) DNA on mucosal surfaces:
comparison with HSV isolation in cell culture. _J Infect Dis_ , 2003. **188**
(9):1345-51.

26\. Van Wagoner NJ, Hook EW III. Herpes diagnostic tests and their use. _Curr
Infect Dis Rep_ , 2012. **14** (2): 175-84.

27\. Morrow R, Friedrich D. Performance of a novel test for IgM and IgG
antibodies in subjects with culture-documented genital herpes simplex virus-1
or -2 infection. _Clin Microbiol Infect_ , 2006. **12** :463-9.

28\. Martin ET, Krantz A, Gottlieb SL, et al. A pooled analysis of the effect
of condoms in preventing HSV-2 acquisition. _Arch Intern Med_ , 2009. **169**
(13): 1233-40.

29\. Wald A, Langenberg AGM, Link K, et al. Effect of condoms on reducing the
transmission of herpes simplex virus type 2 from men to women. _JAMA_ , 2001.
**285** (24): 3100-6.

30\. Corey L, Wald A, Patel R, et al. Once-daily valacyclovir to reduce the
risk of transmission of genital herpes. _N Engl J Med_ , 2004. **350** :11-20.

Page last reviewed: January 31, 2017

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Herpes

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts & Brochures expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Basic Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Screening FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Archive

STDs Home Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Genital Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * STDs & Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Other STDs

#### See Also

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reproductive Health

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

