https://www.cdc.gov/std/herpes/stdfact-herpes.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/herpes/stdfact-herpes.htm    
                Description: Genital Herpes Fact Sheet from CDC.  What is Herpes?  How common is Herpes?  How do people get Herpes?  And more...    
                Keywords: Genital Herpes,  Herpes,  herpies,  HSV,  Genital Ulcerative Disease,  Facts,  Treatment,  Statistics,  STD,  CDC    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Genital Herpes

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Genital Herpes - CDC Fact Sheet

Other Languages

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)ä¸­æ (Chinese)KreyÃ²l (Haitian Creole)Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹
(Russian)Tiáº½ng ViÃªt (Vietnamese)

Minus

Related Pages

![three couples](/std/herpes/images/herpesFS-4.jpg)

#### Genital herpes is a common sexually transmitted disease (STD) that any
sexually active person can get. Most people with the virus don't have
symptoms. Even without signs of the disease, herpes can still be spread to sex
partners.

**Basic Fact Sheet** | Detailed Version

Basic fact sheets are presented in plain language for individuals with general
questions about sexually transmitted diseases. The content here can be
syndicated (added to your web site).

Print Versionpdf icon For desktop printing, choose "exact size" instead of
"fit to page" to omit crop marks.

### What is genital herpes?

![How can I avoid getting herpes?  Learn More](/std/images/cta_herpes_1.jpg)

Genital herpes is an STD caused by two types of viruses. The viruses are
called herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) and herpes simplex virus type 2
(HSV-2).

### What is oral herpes?

Oral herpes is usually caused by HSV-1 and can result in cold sores or fever
blisters on or around the mouth. However, most people do not have any
symptoms. Most people with oral herpes were infected during childhood or young
adulthood from non-sexual contact with saliva.

### Is there a link between genital herpes and oral herpes?

Oral herpes caused by HSV-1 can be spread from the mouth to the genitals
through oral sex. This is why some cases of genital herpes are caused by
HSV-1.

### How common is genital herpes?

Genital herpes is common in the United States. More than one out of every six
people aged 14 to 49 years have genital herpes.

### How is genital herpes spread?

You can get genital herpes by having vaginal, anal, or oral sex with someone
who has the disease.

If you do not have herpes, you can get infected if you come into contact with
the herpes virus in:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * A herpes sore;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Saliva (if your partner has an oral herpes infection) or genital secretions (if your partner has a genital herpes infection);
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Skin in the oral area if your partner has an oral herpes infection, or skin in the genital area if your partner has a genital herpes infection.

You can get herpes from a sex partner who does not have a visible sore or who
may not know he or she is infected. It is also possible to get genital herpes
if you receive oral sex from a sex partner who has oral herpes.

You will not get herpes from toilet seats, bedding, or swimming pools, or from
touching objects around you such as silverware, soap, or towels. If you have
additional questions about how herpes is spread, consider discussing your
concerns with a healthcare provider.

![85% of adults have had oral sex. Is it safer?](/std/images/osfs-
safer2-200.jpg)

### How can I reduce my risk of getting genital herpes?

The only way to avoid STDs is to not have vaginal, anal, or oral sex.

If you are sexually active, you can do the following things to lower your
chances of getting genital herpes:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Be in a long-term mutually monogamous relationship with a partner who is not infected with an STD (e.g., a partner who has been tested and has negative STD test results);
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Using latex condoms the right way every time you have sex.

Be aware that not all herpes sores occur in areas that are covered by a latex
condom. Also, herpes virus can be released (shed) from areas of the skin that
do not have a visible herpes sore. For these reasons, condoms _may not_ fully
protect you from getting herpes.

If you are in a relationship with a person known to have genital herpes, you
can lower your risk of getting genital herpes if:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Your partner takes an anti-herpes medication every day. This is something your partner should discuss with his or her doctor.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You avoid having vaginal, anal, or oral sex when your partner has herpes symptoms (i.e., when your partner is having an outbreak).

###  I'm pregnant. How could genital herpes affect my baby?

If you are pregnant and have genital herpes, it is very important for you to
go to prenatal care visits. Tell your doctor if you have ever had symptoms of,
or have been diagnosed with, genital herpes. Also tell your doctor if you have
ever been exposed to genital herpes. There is some research that suggests that
genital herpes infection may lead to miscarriage, or could make it more likely
for you to deliver your baby too early.

Herpes infection can be passed from you to your unborn child before birth but
is more commonly passed to your infant during delivery. This can lead to a
potentially deadly infection in your baby (called neonatal herpes). It is
important that you avoid getting herpes during pregnancy. If you are pregnant
and have genital herpes, you may be offered anti-herpes medicine towards the
end of your pregnancy. This medicine may reduce your risk of having signs or
symptoms of genital herpes at the time of delivery. At the time of delivery,
your doctor should carefully examine you for herpes sores. If you have herpes
symptoms at delivery, a 'C-section' is usually performed.

### How do I know if I have genital herpes?

Most people who have genital herpes have no symptoms, or have very mild
symptoms. You may not notice mild symptoms or you may mistake them for another
skin condition, such as a pimple or ingrown hair. Because of this, most people
who have herpes do not know it.

Herpes sores usually appear as one or more blisters on or around the genitals,
rectum or mouth. The blisters break and leave painful sores that may take a
week or more to heal. These symptoms are sometimes called "having an
outbreak." The first time someone has an outbreak they may also have flu-like
symptoms such as fever, body aches, or swollen glands.

People who experience an initial outbreak of herpes can have repeated
outbreaks, especially if they are infected with HSV-2. Repeat outbreaks are
usually shorter and less severe than the first outbreak. Although the
infection stays in the body for the rest of your life, the number of outbreaks
may decrease over time.

You should be examined by your doctor if you notice any of these symptoms or
if your partner has an STD or symptoms of an STD. STD symptoms can include an
unusual sore, a smelly genital discharge, burning when urinating, or (for
women) bleeding between periods.

### How will my doctor know if I have herpes?

Your healthcare provider may diagnose genital herpes by simply looking at your
symptoms. Providers can also take a sample from the sore(s) and test it. In
certain situations, a blood test may be used to look for herpes antibodies.
Have an honest and open talk with your health care provider and ask whether
you should be tested for herpes or other STDs.

Please note: A herpes blood test can help determine if you have herpes
infection. It cannot tell you who gave you the infection or how long you have
been infected.

### Can herpes be cured?

There is no cure for herpes. However, there are medicines that can prevent or
shorten outbreaks. One of these anti-herpes medicines can be taken daily, and
makes it less likely that you will pass the infection on to your sex
partner(s).

### What happens if I don't get treated?

Genital herpes can cause painful genital sores and can be severe in people
with suppressed immune systems.

If you touch your sores or the fluids from the sores, you may transfer herpes
to another part of your body, such as your eyes. Do not touch the sores or
fluids to avoid spreading herpes to another part of your body. If you do touch
the sores or fluids, immediately wash your hands thoroughly to help avoid
spreading your infection.

If you are pregnant, there can be problems for you and your developing fetus,
or newborn baby. See "I'm pregnant. How could genital herpes affect my baby?"
above for information about this.

### Can I still have sex if I have herpes?

If you have herpes, you should talk to your sex partner(s) and let him or her
know that you do and the risk involved. Using condoms may help lower this risk
but it will not get rid of the risk completely. Having sores or other symptoms
of herpes can increase your risk of spreading the disease. Even if you do not
have any symptoms, you can still infect your sex partners.

You may have concerns about how genital herpes will impact your overall
health, sex life, and relationships. It is best for you to talk to a health
care provider about those concerns, but it also is important to recognize that
while herpes is not curable, it can be managed with medication. Daily
suppressive therapy (i.e., daily use of antiviral medication) for herpes can
also lower your risk of spreading genital herpes to your sex partner. Be sure
to discuss treatment options with your healthcare provider. Since a genital
herpes diagnosis may affect how you will feel about current or future sexual
relationships, it is important to understand how to talk to sexual partners
about STDsexternal icon.

### What is the link between genital herpes and HIV?

Herpes infection can cause sores or breaks in the skin or lining of the mouth,
vagina, and rectum. This provides a way for HIV to enter the body. Even
without visible sores, having genital herpes increases the number of CD4 cells
(the cells that HIV targets for entry into the body) found in the lining of
the genitals. When a person has both HIV and genital herpes, the chances are
higher that HIV will be spread to an HIV-uninfected sex partner during sexual
contact with their partner's mouth, vagina, or rectum.

![More STD Fact Sheets](/std/images/promos/ALLfs180.png)

### Where can I get more information?

STD information and referrals to STD Clinics  
CDC-INFO  
1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636)  
TTY: 1-888-232-6348  
In English, en Español

**Resources:**

CDC National Prevention Information Network (NPIN)  
P.O. Box 6003  
Rockville, MD 20849-6003  
E-mail: npin-info@cdc.gov

American Sexual Health Association (ASHA)external icon  
P. O. Box 13827  
Research Triangle Park, NC 27709-3827  
1-800-783-9877

#### Related Content

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * STDs during Pregnancy

Page last reviewed: August 28, 2017

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Herpes

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facts & Brochures expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Basic Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Detailed Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Screening FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Archive

STDs Home Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Genital Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * STDs & Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Other STDs

#### See Also

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Reproductive Health

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

