https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/notices/Link: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/notices/    
                Description: Travel Health Notices    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

            * Facebook
            * Twitter
            * LinkedIn
            * Email
            * Syndicate

### Travel Health Notices

**Search By Country Name or Disease**  

Travel Health Notices inform travelers and clinicians about current health
issues that impact travelers' health, like disease outbreaks, special events
or gatherings, and natural disasters, in specific international destinations.
See types of travel notices.

**Department of State Safety and Security Alerts:** Travel Advisories.

### Warning Level 3, Avoid Nonessential Travel

            * Widespread ongoing transmission of a respiratory illness caused by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) is occurring globally. CDC recommends that travelers avoid all nonessential international travel.Global COVID-19 Pandemic Notice495

New  Global COVID-19 Pandemic Notice March 27, 2020 Widespread ongoing
transmission of a respiratory illness caused by the novel coronavirus
(COVID-19) is occurring globally. CDC recommends that travelers avoid all
nonessential international travel. Read More >>

            * CDC recommends that travelers defer all cruise travel worldwide.COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel 497

New  COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel  March 17, 2020 CDC recommends that
travelers defer all cruise travel worldwide. Read More >>

            * CDC recommends that travelers avoid all nonessential travel to Venezuela. The country is experiencing outbreaks of infectious diseases, and adequate health care is currently not available in most of the country. Health Infrastructure Breakdown in Venezuela396

Health Infrastructure Breakdown in Venezuela January 03, 2020 CDC recommends
that travelers avoid all nonessential travel to Venezuela. The country is
experiencing outbreaks of infectious diseases, and adequate health care is
currently not available in most of the country.  Read More >>

### Alert Level 2, Practice Enhanced Precautions

            * There are polio outbreaks in several countries in Africa. CDC recommends that all travelers to these countries be vaccinated fully against polio.Polio in Africa437

Polio in Africa March 09, 2020 There are polio outbreaks in several countries
in Africa. CDC recommends that all travelers to these countries be vaccinated
fully against polio. Read More >>

            * There is an outbreak of rubella in Japan. Travelers to Japan should make sure they are vaccinated against rubella with the MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) vaccine before travel.Rubella in Japan116

Rubella in Japan January 03, 2020 There is an outbreak of rubella in Japan.
Travelers to Japan should make sure they are vaccinated against rubella with
the MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) vaccine before travel. Read More >>

            * There is an outbreak of Ebola in the North Kivu (Kivu Nord) and Ituri provinces in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). Ebola in Democratic Republic of the Congo395

Ebola in Democratic Republic of the Congo January 03, 2020 There is an
outbreak of Ebola in the North Kivu (Kivu Nord) and Ituri provinces in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).  Read More >>

            * There are polio outbreaks in several countries in Asia. CDC recommends that all travelers to these countries be vaccinated fully against polio.Polio in Asia436

Polio in Asia January 03, 2020 There are polio outbreaks in several countries
in Asia. CDC recommends that all travelers to these countries be vaccinated
fully against polio. Read More >>

            * A large, ongoing outbreak of yellow fever in Nigeria began in September 2017. The outbreak is now spread throughout the country. Travelers going to Nigeria should receive vaccination against yellow fever at least 10 days before travel and should take steps to prevent mosquito bites while there.Yellow Fever in Nigeria392

Yellow Fever in Nigeria January 03, 2020 A large, ongoing outbreak of yellow
fever in Nigeria began in September 2017. The outbreak is now spread
throughout the country. Travelers going to Nigeria should receive vaccination
against yellow fever at least 10 days before travel and should take steps to
prevent mosquito bites while there. Read More >>

### Watch Level 1, Practice Usual Precautions

            * Dengue is a risk in many parts of Central and South America, Mexico, and the Caribbean. Some countries are reporting increased numbers of cases of the disease. Travelers to the Americas can protect themselves by preventing mosquito bites. Dengue in the Americas427

Updated  Dengue in the Americas March 31, 2020 Dengue is a risk in many parts
of Central and South America, Mexico, and the Caribbean. Some countries are
reporting increased numbers of cases of the disease. Travelers to the Americas
can protect themselves by preventing mosquito bites.  Read More >>

            * Dengue is a risk in many parts of Asia and the Pacific Islands. Some countries are reporting increased numbers of cases of the disease. Travelers to Asia and the Pacific Islands can protect themselves by preventing mosquito bites.Dengue in Asia and the Pacific Islands429

Dengue in Asia and the Pacific Islands March 09, 2020 Dengue is a risk in many
parts of Asia and the Pacific Islands. Some countries are reporting increased
numbers of cases of the disease. Travelers to Asia and the Pacific Islands can
protect themselves by preventing mosquito bites. Read More >>

            * There is an outbreak of meningococcal disease in northwest Benin.Meningococcal Disease in Benin442

Meningococcal Disease in Benin January 28, 2020 There is an outbreak of
meningococcal disease in northwest Benin. Read More >>

            * There is an ongoing outbreak of monkeypox in Nigeria.Monkeypox in Nigeria402

Monkeypox in Nigeria January 07, 2020 There is an ongoing outbreak of
monkeypox in Nigeria. Read More >>

            * There is an ongoing outbreak of monkeypox in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).Monkeypox in the Democratic Republic of the Congo438

Monkeypox in the Democratic Republic of the Congo January 03, 2020 There is an
ongoing outbreak of monkeypox in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
Read More >>

            * Dengue is a risk in many parts of Africa and the Middle East. Some countries are reporting increased numbers of cases of the disease. Travelers to Africa and the Middle East can protect themselves by preventing mosquito bites.Dengue in Africa and the Middle East428

Dengue in Africa and the Middle East January 03, 2020 Dengue is a risk in many
parts of Africa and the Middle East. Some countries are reporting increased
numbers of cases of the disease. Travelers to Africa and the Middle East can
protect themselves by preventing mosquito bites. Read More >>

            * Nigerian health officials have declared an outbreak of Lassa fever in Nigeria. Travelers to Nigeria should avoid contact with rats.Lassa Fever in Nigeria258

Lassa Fever in Nigeria January 03, 2020 Nigerian health officials have
declared an outbreak of Lassa fever in Nigeria. Travelers to Nigeria should
avoid contact with rats. Read More >>

            * There is a malaria epidemic in Burundi, a country in central Africa. To prevent malaria infection, travelers should take prescription medicine and take steps to prevent mosquito bites. Malaria in Burundi322

Malaria in Burundi January 03, 2020 There is a malaria epidemic in Burundi, a
country in central Africa. To prevent malaria infection, travelers should take
prescription medicine and take steps to prevent mosquito bites.  Read More >>

            * There is an outbreak of chikungunya in Ethiopia. You can protect yourself against chikungunya disease by preventing mosquito bitesChikungunya in Ethiopia433

Chikungunya in Ethiopia January 03, 2020 There is an outbreak of chikungunya
in Ethiopia. You can protect yourself against chikungunya disease by
preventing mosquito bites Read More >>

            * There is an ongoing outbreak of extensively drug-resistant (XDR) typhoid fever in Pakistan. Extensively drug-resistant infections do not respond to most antibiotics.XDR Typhoid Fever in Pakistan397

XDR Typhoid Fever in Pakistan January 03, 2020 There is an ongoing outbreak of
extensively drug-resistant (XDR) typhoid fever in Pakistan. Extensively drug-
resistant infections do not respond to most antibiotics. Read More >>

#### Types of Notices

            * ![Level 3: Warning](/travel/images/level3-swatch.jpg)

**Warning Level 3  (Red)**: **Avoid all non-essential travel** to this
destination. The outbreak is of high risk to travelers and no precautions are
available to protect against the identified increased risk.

            * ![Level 2: Alert](/travel/images/level2-swatch.jpg)

**Alert Level 2  (Yellow)**: **Practice enhanced precautions** for this
destination. The Travel Health Notice describes additional precautions added,
or defines a specific at-risk population.

            * ![Level 1: Watch](/travel/images/level1-swatch.jpg)

**Watch Level 1  (Green)**: **Practice usual precautions** for this
destination, as described in the Travel Health Notice and/or on the
destination page. This includes being up-to-date on all recommended vaccines
and practicing appropriate mosquito avoidance.

* * *

Page last reviewed: March 31, 2020

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

            * Destinations
            * Find a Clinicexpand
              * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                * FAQ
            * Travel Notices
            * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
              * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                * Clinical Updates
                * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
              * Traveler Adviceexpand
                * After Travel Tips
                * Animal Safety
                * Before You Travel Tips
                * Blood Clots
                * Bug Bites
                * Business Travel
                * Cold Climates
                * Counterfeit Medicines
                * Cruise Ship Travel
                * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                * During Travel Tips
                * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                * Food and Water
                * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                  * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                * High Altitudes
                * Holiday Travel
                * Hot Climates
                * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                * Insurance
                * International Adoption
                * Jet Lag
                * Last-Minute Travel
                * Long-Term Travel
                * Lunar New Year
                * Mass Gatherings
                * Medical Tourism
                * Mental Health
                * Motion Sickness
                * Natural Disasters
                * Pack Smart
                * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                  * Posters
                  * Prevent Bug Bites
                  * Recently in American Tropics?
                  * Going to American Tropics?
                  * Food and Water: What's Safer
                  * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                  * Food and Water: What to Know
                  * Road Safety
                  * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                  * MERS Health Advisory poster
                  * MERS Pictogram
                  * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                  * Website Guide
                  * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                  * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                  * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                  * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                  * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                * Pregnant Travelers
                * Road Safety
                * Routine Vaccines
                * Senior Citizens
                * Sex Tourism
                * Spring Break Travel
                * STDs
                * Study Abroad
                * Summer Travel Abroad
                * Sun Exposure
                * Tick Bites
                * Travel to the Extreme
                * Travel Vaccines
                * Traveler Survival Guide
                * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                * Traveling with Children
                * Traveling with Your Pet
                * Travelers' Diarrhea
                * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                * Travelers with Disability
                * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                * Water Disinfection
                * Water Safety Abroad
                * Mobile Apps
                * RSS Feeds
              * Travel Industry Resources
              * Research and Surveillance Partners
            * Disease Directoryexpand
              * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
              * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
            * Yellow Bookexpand
              * Contents
                * Chapter 1
                  * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                  * Travel Epidemiology
                  *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
              * Tables
              * Maps
              * Figures
              * Boxes
              * Updates
              * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
            * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
              * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

              * Adobe PDF file
              * Microsoft PowerPoint file
              * Microsoft Word file
              * Microsoft Excel file
              * Audio/Video file
              * Apple Quicktime file
              * RealPlayer file
              * Text file
              * Zip Archive file
              * SAS file
              * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

              * About CDC
              * Jobs
              * Funding
              * Policies
              * File Viewers & Players

              * Privacy
              * FOIA
              * No Fear Act
              * OIG
              * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

              * Facebook
              * Twitter
              * Youtube
              * Instagram
  

              * Syndicate
              * CDC TV
              * RSS
              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

              * Email
              * Recommend
              * Tweet
              * Post
              * RSS

###### CDC Media

              * Listen
              * Watch
              * eCards
              * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

