https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/groups/schools.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/groups/schools.htm    
                Description: Learn what you can do to help your school better support children with epilepsy.    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Epilepsy in Schools

Minus

Related Pages

**On This Page**

                      * Learn How Schools Address Epilepsy
                      * Find Training for School Staff
                      * Help Kids Understand Epilepsy
                      * What a Healthy School Looks Like
                      * Boost the Health of Your School

## Provide Your School with the Right Tools to Manage Epilepsy

Nationwide, about 470,000 children have epilepsy. For many children, epilepsy
is easily controlled with medicine. These children can do what other kids can
do, and perform as well in school. For others, it can be more challenging.
Learn what you can do to help your school better support children with
epilepsy.

Learn How Schools in Your Community Address Epilepsy

CDC works with state and local education and health agencies to assess school
health policies and practices in states, large urban school districts, and US
territories through the School Health Profile surveys. CDC published the
results of the 2014 School Health Profile survey in the _School Health
Policies and Practices Brief: Epilepsy and Seizure Disorder_.

The map below shows some of the results from the 2014 School Health Profile
survey.

#### Teachers Want Training for Epilepsy

![United States map titled ](/epilepsy/images/school-health-training-map-
medium.jpg)

Text description is available. Click on the map to see it larger.

Data on epilepsy from the 2014 School Health Profile survey indicate that,
across the states:

                      * The percentage of secondary schools that had a lead health education teacher who **wanted** professional development on epilepsy or seizure disorder ranged from 32.9% to 71.7% (median: 49.0%). See the map for more information.
                      * The percentage of secondary schools that had a lead health education teacher who **received** professional development on epilepsy or seizure disorder in the past 2 years ranged from 9.1% to 38.3% (median: 18.2%).



**Read theSchool Health Policies and Practices Brief Cdc-pdf[PDF - 1.72 MB]**
to find data and learn more about how epilepsy is addressed in schools in your
community.

Find Training for School Staff

CDC partners with the Epilepsy Foundation to deliver free training programs to
school professionals.

                      * Managing Students with Seizures for School NursesExternal teaches **school nurses** how to care for students with seizures and train other school staff. It provides continuing education credits and is available online or in person.
                      * Seizure Training for School PersonnelExternal teaches **school staff** (teachers, office staff, bus drivers, and others) to recognize seizures, provide first aid, and understand how epilepsy may affect a student. It provides continuing education credits and is available online or in person.
                      * Seizure Training for Childcare Personnel Externalteaches **childcare providers** how to recognize seizures and provide seizure first aid for young children.

Help Kids Understand Epilepsy

![Teens in a classroom raising their hands to answer a
question.](/epilepsy/images/groups/teens-in-school-500-medium_cropped.jpg)

CDC supports the Epilepsy Foundation to deliver epilepsy education programs
that teach students about epilepsy and first aid.

                      * Take Charge of the StormExternal is for **middle school-aged students**.
                      * Take Charge of the FactsExternal is for **high school-aged students**.

CDC's Body and Mind (BAM) website teaches **children aged 9-12 years** about
health topics, including epilepsy. Children can learn what a seizure looks
like, review facts about epilepsy, learn about epilepsy stigma, and read about
seizure first aid.

Virtually Discover What a Healthy School Looks Like

CDC's Virtual Healthy School is a new, interactive learning tool that provides
examples of **what a healthy school environment looks like** and ** **
demonstrates **effective epilepsy management in school.**  It uses modern
learning technology and lists practical action steps to engage families and
communities.

#### In the virtual school, the nurse:

                      * Keeps a record of all students with chronic health conditions, including epilepsy, so she or he can act immediately if a seizure occurs at school.
                      * Asks the parents of students with epilepsy to host a discussion about what they do in their homes to treat and manage their child's condition.
                      * Invites a neurologist to visit the school to explain what triggers seizures and what medicines are used for treatments and their possible side effects.
                      * Provides guidance to every student with seizures about self-management and making good lifestyle choices, such as getting enough sleep and lowering stress.
                      * Encourages students with epilepsy to be physically active at school.

Visit the Virtual Health School website to learn more.

Boost the Health of Your School

The CDC Healthy Schools Program provides health tools and resources, including
evidence-based guidelines and a tool that helps schools conduct self-
assessments and plan health and safety policies and programs. For example, the
School Health Index is an **online self-assessment and planning tool** that
schools can use to improve their health and safety policies and programs.

Additional Resources

                      * Ideas for Parents Cdc-pdf[PDF-2.6M] suggests ways parents can support schools in managing students with epilepsy.
                      * You Are Not Alone Parent Toolkit is a support program for parents of teens who have epilepsy.
                      * The Find Support webpage offers free resources to help you or someone you love manage epilepsy day to day.
                      * Information for Parents
                      * Information for Communities

Page last reviewed: March 26, 2018

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                      * About Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Seizure First Aid
                        * Fast Facts
                        * Types of Seizures
                        * FAQs
                        * SUDEPplus icon
                          * SUDEP Information for Parents
                      * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                        * Find Support
                        * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                          * Parentâs Guide
                          * Facilitatorâs Guide
                          * Resource Guide
                        * Clinical Trials 
                      * Preventing Epilepsy
                      * Data and Statistics
                      * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                        * MEW Network
                        * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                      * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                      * Publicationsplus icon
                        * Reports
                        * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                          * Scientific Articles by Year
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Parents
                        * Health Care Providers
                        * Training for Professionals
                        * Schools
                        * Communities
                      * Communications Centerplus icon
                        * Whatâs New
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                        * Featuresplus icon
                          * Spotlight on Seizures
                          * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                          * Epilepsy Self-Management
                          * Epilepsy in Children
                          * Get Seizure Smart!
                          * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                          * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                          * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                        * Podcasts
                        * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

