https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/toolkit/parents-guide.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/toolkit/parents-guide.htm    
                Description: As a parent of a teen with epilepsy, you may be dealing with issues- some more teen related, others more epilepsy specific. This program helps you work through these problems.    
                Keywords: epilepsy, parents, You Are Not Alone, Roxanne, Epilepsy Foundation, EF, Reach Out, brochure, resource guide, stationery,    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Parent's Guide

Minus

Related Pages

"When my son was little, I could manage the seizures and medications for
him…but he isn't little anymore--it's up to him. My job has changed--the best
thing I can do is to prepare my son to manage his own health and to be there
to support and encourage him every step of the way. I want him to keep good
seizure control and cope with the ups and downs, but more importantly, not let
epilepsy get in the way of his dreams and his life."

-Patricia Osborne Shafer, RN, MN  
Mother of teen with epilepsy

As a parent of a teen with epilepsy, you may be dealing with issues- some more
teen related, others more epilepsy specific. This program helps you work
through these problems.

Use the parts of this program as conversation starters with your spouse or
partner, between you and your teen, or with other family members and friends.

###  Part 1-- Letter to Parents

Read this letter to parents, which was written by a parent of a child with
epilepsy, to better understand how this toolkit can help your family.

                      * Read the letter
                      * Download the letter Cdc-pdf[PDF-170K]

###  Part 2-- "You Are Not Alone" Video

![mother and son ](/epilepsy/images/toolkit/parent-son_250px.jpg)

This documentary-style video features the story of two families who "survived"
the teen years. The video does not cover all experiences or viewpoints, but
shares the experiences of a few families. The video is meant to spark
discussions about what you are experiencing. Because of the realism of the
video, a wide range of issues, emotions, and thoughts may arise about
parenting a teen with epilepsy.

The video can be watched in its entirety or can be stopped and started for
discussion with your teen, spouse or partner, or other family members and
friends. It has been edited into nine segments for this purpose.

After watching the video, you may want to start a discussion with your family
members about their reactions. The questions to consider may be helpful in the
discussion.

                      * Watch the videoExternal
                      * Questions to Consider
                      * Transcript of the video

**Please note:** Roxanne's aunt mentions that Roxanne was diagnosed at an
Epilepsy Foundation (EF) affiliate. Not all EF affiliates have clinics
associated with them. A diagnosis of epilepsy should only be made by a medical
professional.

###  Part 3-- "Rewind" Conversations

You will read the transcripts of three "overheard conversations" between
parents and their teens living with epilepsy. Each conversation is "rewound"
and followed by a different version of that conversation that demonstrates one
way teens think the conversation should have gone.

Just like the video, these conversations address a wide range of issues and
emotions that may come from parenting a teen with epilepsy. You may disagree
with some of the alternatives presented in the "rewound" conversations.
Remember that the "rewound" conversations are meant to spark discussion rather
than provide final solutions to the situations discussed.

Consider reading the conversations alone or with your spouse or other adult
first. Then, read one scenario at a time with your teen and initiate a
discussion on the issues that it covers. After reading the conversations with
your teen, spouse, or other adult, initiate a discussion about communication
styles and what you can do to improve current communications. Try to focus on
actively listening to your teen and affirming what you hear from him or her.
You may want to use the suggested questions to stimulate and direct the
discussion.

                      * Transcript of the audio file
                      * Questions to Consider

###  Part 4-- "Reach Out" Brochure

Consider reviewing this brochure with your spouse, partner, or other family
members and discussing how parenting a teen with epilepsy has affected the
family as a whole and each individual family relationship. Together, make a
plan of action for nurturing your relationships and yourself. Base the action
plan on goals that you set together. If you have never attended a parent
support group meeting, seek one out either close to home or online.

                      * "Reach Out" Brochure

###  Part 5-- Resource Guide

The _Resource Guide_ provides additional information, including organizations
and online sources for more information on epilepsy and a range of topics
related to family and parenting issues.

                      * Resource Guide

###  Part 6-- Stationery

Use this set of preprinted sheets to write messages to teachers, neighbors,
coaches, employers, or other adults who come into contact with your teen. It
is a vehicle for introducing your teen's condition and advocating for him or
her. Note that the information on seizure first aid at the bottom of each page
provides an opportunity to educate the reader about the appropriate response
to a seizure.

                      * Stationery - Cdc-pdf[PDF - 368KB]

Page last reviewed: March 6, 2019

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                      * About Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Seizure First Aid
                        * Fast Facts
                        * Types of Seizures
                        * FAQs
                        * SUDEPplus icon
                          * SUDEP Information for Parents
                      * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                        * Find Support
                        * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                          * Parentâs Guide
                          * Facilitatorâs Guide
                          * Resource Guide
                        * Clinical Trials 
                      * Preventing Epilepsy
                      * Data and Statistics
                      * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                        * MEW Network
                        * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                      * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                      * Publicationsplus icon
                        * Reports
                        * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                          * Scientific Articles by Year
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Parents
                        * Health Care Providers
                        * Training for Professionals
                        * Schools
                        * Communities
                      * Communications Centerplus icon
                        * Whatâs New
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                        * Featuresplus icon
                          * Spotlight on Seizures
                          * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                          * Epilepsy Self-Management
                          * Epilepsy in Children
                          * Get Seizure Smart!
                          * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                          * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                          * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                        * Podcasts
                        * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

