https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/communications/infographics/infographics-text.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/communications/infographics/infographics-text.html    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Text Descriptions for Infographics

Minus

Related Pages

When Seizures Don't Stop

![When Seizures Don’t Stop. \[Illustration of a head and brain\]. Epilepsy is
common. 3 million U.S. adults have active epilepsy. 56% of adults with
epilepsy still have seizures. \[Illustration of doctor and a nurse standing in
a medical office\]. A specialist can help stop seizures. 1 out of 3 adults
with epilepsy didn’t see a specialist in the past year. Adults with
uncontrolled seizures should: see an epilepsy specialist; take medical as
prescribed; learn to manage epilepsy; call the Epilepsy Foundation helpline at
1-800-332-1000.](/epilepsy/communications/infographics/images/large/Epilepsy-
Visual-Abstract-1000.jpg)

### Text Description

**Epilepsy is common.**

[Illustration of a head and brain]

                      * 3 million U.S. adults have active epilepsy.
                      * 56% of adults with epilepsy still have seizures.

**A specialist can help stop seizures.**

[Illustration of doctor and a nurse standing in a medical office]

1 out of 3 adults with epilepsy didn't see a specialist in the past year.

**Adults with uncontrolled seizures should:**

                      * See an epilepsy specialist.
                      * Take medical as prescribed.
                      * Learn to manage epilepsy.
                      * Call Epilepsy Foundation helpline 1-800-332-1000.

Data as of 2015 as published in Tian et al. _MMWR_. April 2018;
https://go.usa.gov/xQjSwExternal

**Return to the Infographics page.**

 Top of Page

Paying for Health Care is Hard for People with Epilepsy

![Paying for health care is hard for people with epilepsy. Adults with
epilepsy have more difficulty paying for medicine. 21% of adults with epilepsy
can’t pay for medicines, compared to 9% of adults without epilepsy who could
not pay for their medicine. Adults with epilepsy have more difficulty paying
for eyeglasses. 18% of adults with epilepsy can’t pay for eye glasses,
compared to 8% of adults without epilepsy. Adults with epilepsy have more
difficulty paying for dental care. 27% of adults with epilepsy can’t pay for
dental care, compared to 14% of adults without epilepsy without dental
care.](/epilepsy/communications/infographics/images/large/epilepsy-healthcare-
challenges504.jpg)

### Text Description

Paying for health care is hard for people with epilepsy.

[Illustration of 2 pills]

Adults with epilepsy have more difficulty paying for medicine.

                      * 21% of adults with epilepsy can't pay for medicines, compared to 9% of adults without epilepsy who could not pay for their medicine.

[Illustration of a pair of eye glasses]

Adults with epilepsy have more difficulty paying for eyeglasses.

                      * 18% of adults with epilepsy can't pay for eye glasses, compared to 8% of adults without epilepsy.

[Illustration of a tooth]

Adults with epilepsy have more difficulty paying for dental care.

                      * 27% of adults with epilepsy can't pay for dental care, compared to 14% of adults without epilepsy without dental care.

Sources:

Kobau R, Cui W, Kadima N, et al. Tracking psychosocial health in adults with
epilepsy--estimates from the 2010 National Health Interview Survey. _Epilepsy
Behav_. 2014;41:66-73.

Thurman DJ, Kobau R, Luo Yao-Hua, Helmers SL, Zack MM. Health-care access
among adults with epilepsy: the U.S. National Health Interview Survey, 2010
and 2013. _Epilepsy Behav_. 2017;55:184-188.

**Return to the Infographics page.**

 Top of Page

Epilepsy Can Make it Hard to Have a Job

![epilepsy can make it hard to have a job. 32% of adults with epilepsy can't
work versus 7% of adults without epilepsy.  29% of adults with epilepsy can't
use a car or public transit to get places versus 8% of adults without
epilepsy.](/epilepsy/communications/infographics/images/large/epilepsy-
employment-challenges504.jpg)

### Text Description

Epilepsy can make it hard to have a job.

[Illustration of a person sitting at a desk and working on a computer.]

32% of adults with epilepsy can't work, compared with 7% of adults without
epilepsy who can't work.

[Illustration of a car.]

29% of adults with epilepsy can't use a car or public transit to get places,
compared with 8% of adults without epilepsy.

**Sources:**

Kobau R, Cui W, Kadima N, et al. Tracking psychosocial health in adults with
epilepsy--estimates from the 2010 National Health Interview Survey. _Epilepsy
Behav_. 2014;41:66-73.

Thurman DJ, Kobau R, Luo Yao-Hua, Helmers SL, Zack MM. Health-care access
among adults with epilepsy: the U.S. National Health Interview Survey, 2010
and 2013. _Epilepsy Behav_. 2017;55:184-188.

**Return to the Infographics page.**

 Top of Page

Epilepsy and Good Mental Health

![People without a history of epilepsy report good or better mental health
more frequently than people with a history of epilepsy. 54% of people with a
history of epilepsy report good or better mental health. 79% of people without
a history of epilepsy report good or better mental health. The Healthy People
2020 target is 80% of people reporting good or better mental
health.](/epilepsy/communications/infographics/images/large/epilepsy-mental-
health504.jpg)

### Text Description

People without a history of epilepsy report good or better mental health more
frequently than people with a history of epilepsy.

                      * 54% of people with a history of epilepsy report good or better mental health.
                      * 79% of people without a history of epilepsy report good or better mental health.
                      * The Healthy People 2020 target is 80% of people reporting good or better mental health.

**Source:**

Kobau R, Cui W, Zack MM. Adults with an epilepsy history fare significantly
worse on positive mental and physical health than adults with other common
chronic conditions--estimates from the 2010 National Health Interview Survey
and Patient Reported Outcome Measurement System (PROMIS) Global Health Scale.
_Epilepsy Behav_. 2017;72:182-184.

**Return to the Infographics page.**

 Top of Page

Epilepsy and Poor Mental Health

![Illustration of a head with 2 spinning wheels inside of it. Adults with
epilepsy are more likely to have felt nervous, sad, or hopeless in the past 30
days. 13% of adults with epilepsy felt nervous, sad, or hopeless in the past
30 days, compared to 3% of adults without
epilepsy.](/epilepsy/communications/infographics/images/large/epilepsy-
nervous-hopeless504.jpg)

### Text Description

[Illustration of a head with 2 spinning wheels inside of it.]

Adults with epilepsy are more likely to have felt nervous, sad, or hopeless in
the past 30 days.

13% of adults with epilepsy felt nervous, sad, or hopeless in the past 30
days, compared to 3% of adults without epilepsy.

**Sources:**

Kobau R, Cui W, Kadima N, et al. Tracking psychosocial health in adults with
epilepsy--estimates from the 2010 National Health Interview Survey. _Epilepsy
Behav_. 2014;41:66-73.

Thurman DJ, Kobau R, Luo Yao-Hua, Helmers SL, Zack MM. Health-care access
among adults with epilepsy: the U.S. National Health Interview Survey, 2010
and 2013. _Epilepsy Behav_. 2017;55:184-188.

**Return to the Infographics page.**

 Top of Page

Seizures and Poverty

![336,000 kids have at least one seizure annually. 4 in 10 live in homes at or
close to the poverty level. 3 in 10 live in homes without enough
food.](/epilepsy/communications/infographics/images/large/epilepsy-
poverty.jpg)

### Text Description

Kids who have at least one seizure annually also have high rates of living in
homes at or close to the poverty level and living in homes with enough food.

336,000 kids have at least one seizure annually.

[Illustration of a house]

4 in 10 kids who had at least one seizure in the past year live in homes at or
close to the poverty level.

[Illustration of a fork, plate, and spoon]

3 in 10 kids who had at least one seizure in the past year live in homes
without enough food.

**Source:**

Cui W, Kobau R, Zack MM, Helmers S. Marshalyn Yeargin-Allsopp M. Seizures in
children and adolescents aged 6-17 years - United States, 2010-2014\. _MMWR_.
2015;64(43):1209-14.

**Return to the Infographics page.**

 Top of Page

Page last reviewed: March 5, 2019

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                      * About Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Seizure First Aid
                        * Fast Facts
                        * Types of Seizures
                        * FAQs
                        * SUDEPplus icon
                          * SUDEP Information for Parents
                      * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                        * Find Support
                        * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                          * Parentâs Guide
                          * Facilitatorâs Guide
                          * Resource Guide
                        * Clinical Trials 
                      * Preventing Epilepsy
                      * Data and Statistics
                      * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                        * MEW Network
                        * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                      * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                      * Publicationsplus icon
                        * Reports
                        * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                          * Scientific Articles by Year
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Parents
                        * Health Care Providers
                        * Training for Professionals
                        * Schools
                        * Communities
                      * Communications Centerplus icon
                        * Whatâs New
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                        * Featuresplus icon
                          * Spotlight on Seizures
                          * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                          * Epilepsy Self-Management
                          * Epilepsy in Children
                          * Get Seizure Smart!
                          * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                          * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                          * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                        * Podcasts
                        * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

