https://www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth/data/yrbs/faq.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth/data/yrbs/faq.htm    
                Description: Frequently asked questions about the Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System (YRBSS).    
                Keywords: frequently asked questions, faq, Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System, YRBSS    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# YRBSS Frequently Asked Questions

Minus

Related Pages

To learn more about the Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System (YRBSS) and
its use, browse the topics below.

Question_02

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Top Five YRBSS Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Data Availability and Requesting YRBSS Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Administration & Data Release
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Conducting Your Own YRBS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * YRBSS Questionnaires

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Analyzing YRBSS Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Uses of YRBSS Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Validity & Reliability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Methodology

Top Five YRBSS Frequently Asked Questions

####  **Are YRBSS results available by zip code, census tract, school, large
urban school district, or county? Are YRBSS results available for my
town/city/large urban school district?**

YRBSS data are not available by zip code, census tract, or school. Sample size
limitations and confidentiality requirements do not support analyses at these
levels.

YRBSS data are available for a small number of specifically funded large urban
school districts or counties. CDC funds certain large urban school districts
to conduct the YRBSS. Some of those large urban school districts are county-
based. See Participation History & Data Quality for more information about
county-based large urban school districts with YRBSS data. Data are only
available for large urban school districts or counties on the list; no other
local YRBSS data are available.

County-level identifiers are not available in the National YRBS data set or in
most state data sets.

#### **When are updated YRBSS results released?**

Most YRBS's are conducted during the spring of odd-numbered years and results
are released in the summer of the following year. Therefore, results from the
2017 national, state, and local YRBSS administration, for instance, were
released in an MMWR Surveillance Summary during the summer of 2018. The
specific release date for a given cycle is posted on the YRBSS home page as
soon as it has been determined.

#### **What is the suggested citation for the YRBSS questionnaire or YRBSS
data in a publication?**

YRBSS questionnaires should be cited as follows:

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. [survey year] Youth Risk Behavior
Survey Questionnaire. Available at: www.cdc.gov/yrbs. Accessed on [date].

YRBSS data in a publication should be cited as follows:

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. [survey year] Youth Risk Behavior
Survey Data. Available at: www.cdc.gov/yrbs. Accessed on [date].

#### **Do I need permission to use YRBSS Questionnaires for my
study/area/large urban school district/school? Is there a cost?**

The YRBSS questionnaires are in the public domain and no permission is
required to use them. You may download and use the questionnaires as is or
with changes at no charge. See YRBSS Questionnaires for the most recent YRBSS
questionnaires.

#### **Are the YRBSS questionnaires available in languages other than
English?**

YRBSS questionnaires are not available in languages other than English. YRBSS
questionnaires were designed to be administered in a school setting.
Therefore, it is important to consider the language used in regular
classrooms. If testing in subjects such as math or social studies is conducted
in English, it may not be necessary to translate YRBSS questionnaires. Check
with school officials before deciding whether or not translation is needed.

YRBSS questionnaires are in the public domain, however, and may be freely
translated and used in any language. No specific permission is required.

Top of Page

Data Availability and Requesting YRBSS Data Files

####  **Are YRBSS results available by zip code, census tract, school, large
urban school district, or county? Are YRBSS results available for my
town/city/large urban school district?**

YRBSS data are not available by zip code, census tract, or school.  Sample
size limitations and confidentiality requirements do not support analyses at
these levels.

YRBSS data are available for a small number of specifically funded large urban
school districts or counties. CDC funds certain large urban school districts
to conduct the YRBSS. Some of those large urban school districts are county-
based. See Participation Maps & History for more information about county-
based large urban school districts with YRBSS data. Data are only available
for large urban school districts or counties on the list; no other local YRBSS
data are available.

County-level identifiers are not available in the National YRBS data set or in
most state data sets.

#### **For which jurisdictions are YRBSS data sets available?**

YRBSS data sets are available for the United States overall, most states, some
territories, some large urban school districts, and some tribal governments.
Availability depends on YRBSS participation, data quality, and data-sharing
policies. See Participation Maps & History for more information about data
availability.

#### **How can I get state, large urban school district, territory, or tribal
government YRBSS data?**

State, large urban school district, territory, and tribal government data sets
and documentation are owned and controlled by the jurisdictions that conducted
the surveys. Many sites have given CDC permission to distribute their data
sets upon request, but others manage the distribution of their data sets
themselves.

To request data sets and documentation for a specific jurisdiction, follow
these steps:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * View the High School or Middle School participation history and data quality to see which sites have weighted data in which survey years and to see which sites have given permission for CDC to distribute their data.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Complete the YRBSS Data Request Form, indicating the survey data you would like to receive.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * For sites that have given CDC YRBSS data distribution permission, we will email data sets to you directly. For sites that have not given us distribution permission, we will email you contact information for that site; you will need to contact the site directly to discuss your data request.

#### **Why are results not available from every state?**

Results are not available from every state for several reasons. First, four
states (Minnesota, Oregon, Washington, and Wyoming) do not participate in the
YRBSS. Second, some states that do participate do not achieve a high enough
overall response rate to receive weighted results. Therefore, their results
are not posted on the CDC web site and CDC does not distribute their data. The
Participation Map and the Participation History & Data Quality tables provide
more details on which states participated in the YRBSS and whether they
obtained weighted data.

#### **How can I get National YRBSS data sets?**

National YRBS data sets and documentation are available for download at YRBSS
Data & Documentation. There is no charge for the data nor is permission needed
to download or use the data.

#### **Do the National YRBS data sets have state identifiers?**

The National YRBS data sets posted on the YRBSS web site do not contain state
or region identifiers because the national samples are not constructed to
provide representative data at state or region levels. However, National YRBS
data sets with state identifiers included are available upon request using the
YRBSS Data Request Form. The National YRBS data sets will not contain data
from every state because the National YRBS is an independent sample; it is not
the aggregate of individual state and local data sets.

#### **Is the National YRBS data set a combination of all the data sets from
the states conducting their own YRBS?**

No, the National YRBS results are not the combination of state and large urban
school district data. The National YRBS data are a separately drawn sample of
high school students in grades 9-12 in the U.S. Some states may not have any
schools chosen as part of the sample. States and large urban school districts
each use a sample design that produces a representative sample of students in
grades 9-12 for their state or large urban school district. If you want to
analyze state or large urban school district data please see Participation
Maps & History for more information about data availability.

#### **Do the National YRBS data sets include schools and students from every
state?**

No. The National YRBS sample is designed to be representative of students in
grades 9-12 in the United States overall but does necessarily include students
from every state.

#### **In which data file formats are National YRBS data available?**

National YRBS data sets are available in two file formats: Access and ASCII.
Additionally, SAS and SPSS programs are provided to convert the ASCII data
into SAS and SPSS datasets. They can be downloaded at YRBSS Data &
Documentation.

State, large urban school district, territory, and tribal government data sets
from surveys conducted since 1999 are available in SAS, SPSS, ASCII, and
Access formats. State, large urban school district, territory, and tribal
government data sets from surveys conducted prior to 1999 are available in
ASCII only.

Top of Page

Conducting Your Own YRBS

####  **Do I need permission to use YRBSS questionnaires for my
study/area/district/school? Is there a cost?**

The YRBSS questionnaires are in the public domain and no permission is
required to use them. You may download the questionnaires at no charge. See
YRBSS Questionnaires for the most recent YRBSS questionnaires.

#### **How do I conduct a YRBS in my area/district/school?**

See A Guide to Conducting Your Own Youth Risk Behavior SurveyCdc-pdf for
information useful to communities and groups that plan to conduct their own
YRBS survey.

#### **If I conduct a YRBS, can CDC help me scan, process, or tabulate my
data?**

CDC provides data processing assistance only to states, territories, and large
urban school districts that it funds directly to conduct a YRBSS. However,
information on how the data are processed can be found on the Methods page and
in the Methodology of the Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance SystemCdc-pdf.

#### **Is funding available for conducting a YRBS?**

CDC has funding available for all 50 states and only a small number of
territories, and large urban school districts during each five year funding
cycle.

Top of Page

YRBS Questionnaires

####  **How are questions selected for inclusion on the YRBS questionnaire?**

Before each YRBS cycle begins, CDC seeks input from subject matter experts
(both inside and outside of CDC) regarding what questions should be changed,
added, and deleted. This input is compiled for review by December of the odd-
numbered year preceding the survey cycle (e.g., December 1, 2019 for the 2021
YRBS).

Proposed changes, additions, and deletions are then placed on a ballot, which
is sent to the YRBS coordinators at all sites (states, territories, and large
urban school districts). Each site votes for or against each proposed change,
addition, and deletion. CDC considers the results of this balloting process
when finalizing the standard questionnaire, which includes 89 questions. At
least 60% of sites must approve each change, addition, or deletion before it
can be implemented.

For the national YRBS, approximately 10 questions are added to the standard
questionnaire each cycle. These questions typically reflect emerging areas of
interest for CDC and stakeholders.

Additional questions of interest are included on an Optional Question List,
from which sites can select questions for their questionnaire. Final wording
for questionnaires and the Optional Question List is based on the results of
cognitive testing and input from subject matter experts.

#### **What is the process for getting a question added to the YRBS
questionnaire or getting an existing question changed?**

All suggested additions and changes should be submitted using the YRBSS
Question, Comment, and Data Request Form. These suggestions must be received
by December 1 of the odd-numbered year preceding the survey cycle (e.g.,
December 1, 2019 for the 2021 YRBS). All suggestions are then compiled and
reviewed by CDC before entering the ballot process described above.

#### **Are the YRBSS questionnaires available in languages other than
English?**

The YRBSS questionnaires are not available in languages other than English.
The YRBSS questionnaires were designed to be administered in a school setting.
Therefore, it is important to consider the language used in regular
classrooms. If testing in subjects such as math or social studies is conducted
in English, it may not be necessary to translate YRBSS questionnaires. Check
with school officials before deciding whether or not translation is needed.

YRBSS questionnaires are, however, in the public domain and may be freely
translated and used in any language. No specific permission is required.

#### **Will asking questions about certain topics actually encourage certain
behaviors?**

There is no evidence that simply asking students about health behaviors will
encourage them to try that behavior.

#### **What is the suggested citation for a YRBSS questionnaire or YRBSS data
in a publication?**

The YRBSS questionnaire should be cited as follows:

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. [survey year] Youth Risk Behavior
Survey. Available at: www.cdc.gov/YRBSS. Accessed on [date].

YRBSS data in a publication should be cited as follows:

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. [survey year] Youth Risk Behavior
Survey Data. Available at: www.cdc.gov/yrbs. Accessed on [date].

#### **What behaviors are assessed by the YRBSS?**

The YRBSS assesses six categories of priority health behaviors--behaviors that
contribute to unintentional injuries and violence; sexual behaviors related to
unintended pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV
infection; alcohol and other drug use; tobacco use; unhealthy dietary
behaviors; and inadequate physical activity. In addition, the YRBSS assesses
obesity, overweight, asthma, and other important health issues.

#### **Can state and local agencies that conduct a YRBSS modify the standard
questionnaire?**

Yes. State and local agencies that conduct a YRBS can add or delete questions
to meet their policy or programmatic needs. Specific guidance on the
parameters that must be followed during questionnaire modification is provided
to those agencies funded by CDC to conduct a YRBS.

#### **Are transgender students included in the national, state, and large
urban school district YRBS 's?**

Yes. All students in sampled classrooms are included as long as they are able
to respond to the questionnaire in a private and anonymous matter.

#### **Does the YRBS identify transgender students?**

CDC worked with partners and researchers for several cycles to develop a
credible question to identify transgender students. A question recommended by
CDC was successfully piloted by 11 states and 10 large urban school districts
during the 2017 YRBS cycle. Cognitive interviews conducted in March of 2018
also indicated that the question functioned well. It is included in the 2019
YRBS Optional Question list for any interested state or large urban school
district to use.

Top of Page

Analyzing YRBSS Data

####  **What software should I use to analyze YRBSS data?**

See Software for Analysis of YRBS DataCdc-pdf for a review of software
packages suitable for analyzing YRBSS data and guidance on how to use them.

#### **How are the national, state, territory, tribal government, and local
YRBS data different? Are the national data the aggregate of the all of the
state and other YRBS data?**

National, state, territory, tribal government, and local YRBS data come from
separate scientific samples of schools and students. National YRBS data are
not the aggregate of the state YRBS data sets. State, territory, tribal
government, and local YRBS data are not subsets of the National YRBSS data
set. National, state, territory, tribal government, and local YRBS's all
follow the same survey methodology and use the same core questionnaire.

#### **Is there a national middle school YRBS?**

No. However, middle school results are available for some states, districts,
territories, and tribal governments that have elected to conduct a middle
school YRBS in their jurisdiction. Middle school YRBS results are available on
Youth Online.

#### **Can I calculate state-level estimates of a health behavior using the
National YRBS data?**

No, the National YRBS was not designed to produce representative estimates at
the state level.

#### **Is it possible to analyze associations between state-level
characteristics and student-level behaviors using the National YRBS data?**

This type of analysis has significant limitations and should be conducted with
caution. A state-level characteristic, such as the presence of a state law,
can be added to a regression model as an exogenous (independent) variable and
will yield statistically correct estimates. However, it is important to fully
consider the context of these estimates. The National YRBS was not designed to
produce representative estimates at the state level, the number of students
chosen from states varies considerably and is usually too small to generate
precise or stable state-level estimates, and fewer than 50 states are included
in the national sample each cycle. Thus, researchers should fully investigate
the implications and interpretations of this type of analysis and should
understand the sampling design of the National YRBS and how that design might
influence their results. See Methodology of the Youth Risk Behavior
Surveillance SystemCdc-pdf for more information about the National YRBS
sampling design.

#### **Can I calculate prevalence estimates by urban/rural status? Is an
urban/rural identifier available for the National YRBS data sets?**

No, the National YRBS was not designed to produce estimates by urban/rural
status. In the National YRBS, PSUs are selected based on urban and non-urban
definitions, but it does not necessarily follow that a non-urban area is
rural. Urban status indicates only that the PSU was one of the largest 54
metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs); non-urban indicates that the PSU was
not one of the largest 54 MSAs; it could be rural but is not necessarily
rural. See Methodology of the Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance SystemCdc-pdf
for more information about the National YRBS sampling design.

Top of Page

Uses of YRBSS Results

####  **How are the YRBSS results used?**

State, territorial, tribal government, and local agencies and nongovernmental
organizations use YRBSS data to set and track progress toward meeting school
health and health promotion program goals, support modification of school
health curricula or other programs, support new legislation and policies that
promote health, and seek funding and other support for new initiatives.

CDC and other federal agencies routinely use YRBSS data to assess trends in
priority health behaviors among high school students, monitor progress toward
achieving national health objectives, and evaluate the contribution of broad
prevention efforts in schools and other settings toward helping the nation
reduce health risk behaviors among youth.

#### **Where can I find more information on using YRBSS data?**

Uses of Youth Risk Behavior Survey and School Health Profiles Data:
Applications for Improving Adolescent and School HealthExternal  
Foti K, Balaji A, Shanklin S  
Journal of School Health 2011;81(6):345-354

#### **Can student behavior changes over time be tracked using the YRBSS?**

Yes. The YRBSS tracks aggregate changes in student behavior over time. See the
National Trends Fact Sheets for more information.

#### **Does the YRBSS track specific students over time?**

No. Each cycle a new sample of schools and students is drawn. Students who
participated cannot be tracked because no identifying information is
collected.

#### **Is it appropriate to report prevalence estimates for any of the
racial/ethnic subgroups (e.g., American Indian/Alaskan Native students) asked
about on the National YRBS questionnaire?**

Although prevalence estimates generated for students in each racial/ethnic
subgroup are representative of these students nationally, caution should be
used when analyzing and interpreting these data. Because of the small numbers
of students in some racial/ethnic subgroups who participate in any single
National YRBS, the estimates may lack precision. Precision can be improved by
combining multiple years of National YRBS data.

Top of Page

Validity & Reliability

####  **Do students tell the truth on the YRBS questionnaire?**

Research indicates data of this nature may be gathered as credibly from
adolescents as from adults. Internal reliability checks help identify the
small percentage of students who falsify their answers. To obtain truthful
answers, students must perceive the survey as important and know procedures
have been developed to protect their privacy and allow for anonymous
participation.

#### **What kinds of validation or reliability studies have been done on the
YRBS questionnaire?**

The Methodology of the Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance SystemCdc-pdf contains
a description of most of the methodological studies conducted to date on the
YRBSS questionnaires or YRBSS data collection procedures. In addition, the
list of YRBSS MMWR publications and journal articles contains the actual
journal articles describing the results of these studies.

These methodological studies include test-retest reliability studies on the
1991 and 1999 versions of the questionnaire; a study assessing the validity of
self-reported height and weight; a study assessing the effect of changing the
race/ethnicity question; a study examining how varying honesty appeals,
question wording, and data-editing protocols affect prevalence estimates; and
a study examining how varying the mode and setting of survey administration
affects prevalence estimates.

Top of Page

Methodology

####  **What is the methodology of the YRBS?**

See Methodology of the Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System--2013Cdc-pdf
for details about how YRBSS are conducted.

#### **How are schools and students selected?**

For the national, state, territory, tribal government, and local YRBS samples,
schools are selected with probability proportional to the size of student
enrollment in grades 9-12 and then required classes of students (e.g., English
classes) or a specific period of the school day (e.g., 2nd period) are
randomly selected to participate. Within selected classes, all students are
eligible to participate. See the Methodology of the Youth Risk Behavior
Surveillance SystemCdc-pdf for a more detailed description of sampling
procedures.

#### **Who does the National YRBS data represent?**

National YRBS data are representative of all public and private school
students in grades 9-12 in the 50 states and the District of Columbia.
National YRBS data sets are not the aggregate of the state YRBS data sets; the
National YRBS uses a separate scientific sample of schools and students.

#### **Who does the state and local YRBS data represent?**

Most state, territory, tribal government, and local YRBS data that are
weighted are representative of all public school students in grades 9-12 in
the respective jurisdiction. Some of these surveys also include private
schools in their sampling frame. So their weighted data are representative of
all public and private school students in grades 9-12 in their jurisdiction.
State, territory, tribal government, and local YRBS data that are not weighted
are representative only of the students who completed the survey in the
respective jurisdiction.

#### **What does it mean for data to be "weighted?"**

Weighting is a mathematical procedure that makes data representative of the
population from which it was drawn. In the YRBSS, only surveys with a
scientifically drawn sample, appropriate documentation, and an overall
response rate of at least 60% are weighted.

#### **How are YRBSS data weighted?**

YRBSS data are weighted to adjust for school and student nonresponse and to
make the data representative of the population of students from which the
sample was drawn. Generally, these adjustments are made by applying a weight
based on student sex, grade, and race/ethnicity.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: July 20, 2018

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

question_02 PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

