https://www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth/youth_hiv/portrait_series.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth/youth_hiv/portrait_series.htm    
                Description: Research has shown that school health programs can reduce the prevalence of health risk behaviors among young people and have a positive effect on academic performance.     
                Keywords: Research, school health programs, reduce the prevalence, health risk behaviors among young people, healthy youth, positive effect, academic performance, schools, critical role, promoting, health and safety, young people, lifelong, healthy behaviors.    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Portrait Series

Minus

Related Pages

![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Old-School-Web-
Banner_Chalkboard_REV.JPG)

The #OldSchoolDASH Portrait Series highlights the work of CDC staff and
external partners to protect teen health.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs)

![Dr. Mermin](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Mermin_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Mermin_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Dr. Jonathan Mermin, CDC

![I want young people to know that we value them. Everything we do is to make
sure that HIV/AIDS isnâ€™t part of their future. I want parents and educators
to know we support them as they raise young people into adulthood healthy and
safe. â€“ Dr. Kathleen Ethier, CDC
](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Ethier_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Ethier_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Dr. Kathleen Ethier, CDC

![My advice to teens is to find a trusted adult at home, at school, or in the
community that you can talk to and ask questions about HIV/AIDS. You are not
alone and don’t have to figure out everything by yourself. – Carmen Ashley,
CDC ](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Ashley_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Ashley_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Carmen Ashley, CDC

![Dr. Stephen Banspach, CDC: Thinking about DASH's contribution to this field
over the past 30 years, I believe our strength has been advancing evidence-
based prevention from multiple angles: schools, family, peers, community. All
of these aspects of a young person's life require attention because they all
influence
health.](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/banspach_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/banspach_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Dr. Stephen Banspach, CDC

![Dr. Lisa Barrios, CDC: I 'm all about translating science into practical
guidance, which is why - after more than 20 years with DASH-I am still so
proud of the tools DASH developed that schools can use to support the health
of their
students.](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/barrios_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/barrios_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Dr. Lisa Barrios, CDC

![I am grateful for the opportunity to work on the first study that showed a
decrease in chlamydia associated with a school-based screening programâ€”an
important advancement for teen health. â€“ Richard Dunville, CDC
](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Dunville_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Dunville_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Richard Dunville, CDC

![Elizabeth Haller, CDC: I've always been passionate about educating teachers
and administrators to be a voice of adolescent health. Reflecting back on the
past 14 years with DASH, one of the accomplishments I 'm most proud of is
advancing the whole Community Whole Child Whole School Model. It has been
incredibly rewarding to watch it
work.](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/haller_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/haller_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Elizabeth Haller, CDC

![One of the most important advancements I have seen while working in DASH
over 26 years is that we have identified the characteristics that make health
education interventions effective. We have learned what works and what needs
improvement. - Pete Hunt, CDC
](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Hunt_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Hunt_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Pete Hunt, CDC

![My advice? Become the trusted adult that you would have wanted to talk with
when you were a teen - Dr. John Moore,
CDC](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Moore_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Moore_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Dr. John Moore, CDC

![Investing in teen health programs in schools is important because healthy
students = healthy learners = healthy schools. - Terry Parker,
CDC](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Parker_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Parker_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Terry Parker, CDC

![There is nothing more rewarding than seeing the results from DASH’s work
with the YRBS and School Health Profiles. These surveys help inform
curriculum, policy, and program design to ensure teens today becomes
healthier, happier, and more successful – Shari Shanklin,
CDC](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/shanklin_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/shanklin_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Shari Shanklin, CDC

![One piece of advice I would give myself as a teen: Find at least one
knowledgeable and trusted adult to ask questions about sexual health.
Thereâ€™s a lot of misinformation, so itâ€™s important to get the facts. â€“
Valerie Sims, CDC ](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Sims_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Sims_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Valerie Sims, CDC

![Kelvin Virden, CDC: Adolescents face so many choices about drugs, alcohol,
and other risk behaviors as they grow up. In my 17 years with DASH, I've come
to appreciate even more the importance of helping adolescents make healthy
choices to set them on the right life path.
](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/virden_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/virden_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Kelvin Virden, CDC

![DASH has the big picture perspective on the village it takes to raise a
child. We connect the data, resources, and the gifted folks who make
childrenâ€™s health a priority. â€“ Lisa Whittle, CDC
](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Whittle_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Whittle_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Lisa Whittle, CDC

![As parents and educators, we must give our youth the right tools in their
toolkits for healthy decision making, not just the tools we prefer to use. â€“
Patricia Ayers, Delaware Dept. of Education
](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Ayers_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Ayers_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Patricia Ayers,  
Delaware Dept. of Education

![As a public health professional and educator, I am proud to see how youth
today are more empowered than ever to make informed decisions about their
sexual healthâ€”thanks to more and better resources. - Kenyia Elisa-McLaren,
Boston Public Schools ](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Elisa-
McLaren_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Elisa-McLaren_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Kenyia Elisa-McLaren,  
Boston Public Schools

![My message to youth is: Learning is fun, but learning together is awesome.
Feeling connected to your school can set you up for real success in life—and
not just good grades, but also good health. – Louis King, Mississippi
Department of
Education](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/King_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/King_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Louis King,  
Mississippi Department of Education

![Timothy Kordic, Los Angeles Unified School District: Growing up,
conversations about sexual health didn't happen. I'm glad that I can now help
provide critical health information to young people so they can navigate this
complex world and make healthy
choices.](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/kordic_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/kordic_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Timothy Kordic,  
Los Angeles Unified School District

![Looking back, I would tell my teenage self that it's okay to have questions
about sex and health. All young people have a right to receive honest health
information and most adults want to help. Start looking for an adult you can
trust! - Rosalina Lopez, San Francisco Unified School
District](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Lopez_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Lopez_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Rosalia Lopez,  
San Francisco Unified School District

![Dr. Kristine Meurer, Albuquerque Public Schools: In the 20 years we've been
working with DASH, one of my proudest accomplishments is making health
education a high school graduation requirement in new mexico. Dash and its
national data was instrumental to moving us
forward.](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/meurer_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/meurer_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Dr. Kristine Meurer,  
Albuquerque Public Schools

![I wish I could tell my younger self what we teach our students today: being
healthy is important, healthy relationship are valuable, and learning to speak
up for yourself is an essential part of growing up. - Rachel Miller, San Diego
Unified School
District](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Miller_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Miller_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Rachel Miller,  
San Diego Unified School District

![As a parent and an educator, I am thrilled that we have talented health
education teachers in our schools. The factual, up-to-date information they
provide really helps our young people make wise choices. – Christopher Pepper,
San Francisco Unified School
District](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/pepper_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/pepper_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Christopher Pepper,  
San Francisco Unified School District

![We need to continuously highlight the research-based connections among
education, health, housing, and economic conditions, as well as work across
those systems to create environments where youth can thrive. Rosemary Reilly-
Chammat, Rhode Island Department of
Education](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Reilly-Chammat_thumb.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Reilly-Chammat_thumb.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Rosemary Reilly-Chammat,  
Rhode Island Department of Education

![The message I want to share with youth is that there are so many places to
receive free, confidential HIV testing by caring and compassionate health care
providers. Set up an appointment today! â€“ Susanne Schmal, North Carolina
Healthy Schools ](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Schmal_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Schmal_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Susanne Schmal,  
North Carolina Healthy Schools

![Pete Stewart, The School District of Palm Beach County: As both a parent and
school district staff member, creating a safe learning environtment in which
all students - including our LGBTQ + students - can flourish is so vital to
academic success and social-emotional-physical wellbeing. Working with DASH
has helped bolster our safe and supportive environment work, and I'm extremely
proud of it.  ](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/stewart_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/stewart_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Pete Stewart,  
School District of Palm Beach County

![My message for educators: Connect with your students today. Students who
feel connected to their school and to supportive adults are less likely to
engage in sexual risk behaviors. â€“ Dr. Lacey Rosenbaum, American
Psychological Association
](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Rosenbaum_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Rosenbaum_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Dr. Lacey Rosenbaum,  
American Psychological Association

![My favorite part about working with teens is seeing their passion and
commitment to not only seek out sexual health information for themselves, but
to also make this information accessible for other teens. â€“ Mary Beth
Szydlowski, Advocates for Youth
](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Szydlowski_thumbnail.jpg)

ResizeView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/portrait_series/Szydlowski_thumbnail.jpg)

Download_01Download Image [JPG, NAN ]

Mary Beth Szydlowski,  
Advocates for Youth

Page last reviewed: November 8, 2018

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

Artboard 124 download_01

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

