https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/find-clinic/Link: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/find-clinic/    
                Description: find a clinic    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

  * Facebook
  * Twitter
  * LinkedIn
  * Email
  * Syndicate

### Find a Clinic

### Which clinic option is right for me?

Health Departments

![county health dept sign](/travel/images/county-health-dept.png)

**Call your doctor or local  ** **health department** to see if they can
provide pre-travel advice, vaccines, and medicines.

Vaccine Finder

![Vaccine Finder](/travel/images/vaccine-finder.jpg)

**Use the** **vaccine finder tool** to locate quick clinics and pharmacies
that provide routine vaccines. Call ahead, some of these clinics also offer
travel vaccines.

Travel Medicine Clinics

![medical files](/travel/images/medical-files.png)

**If you are visiting several countries or if you have a pre-existing health
condition** , you may need to see a clinician who specializes in travel
medicine, the International Society of Travel Medicine (ISTM) can direct you
to a travel clinic near you.

Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinics

![yellow fever vacc paper](/travel/images/yellow-fever-vacc.png)

**If you are visiting countries where a  yellow fever shot is recommended or
required**, you will need to visit an authorized yellow fever vaccine clinic.
Many of these clinics also give other travel-related shots and medicines. Find
an authorized US yellow fever vaccine center near you.

### What vaccines, medications, and health advice do I need for my
destination?

Use our destination tool to find vaccine, medications, and health advice
recommendations for your next trip.

  * Learn about routine vaccines; you should have these vaccines no matter where you plan on traveling.
  * Learn about travel vaccines; you should consider getting these vaccines depending on where you are going and what you will be doing. Check our destination tool and talk to your doctor.

### When should I plan to make a doctor's appointment?

You'll need to get your vaccines at least a month before you travel to be
fully protected.

However, even a last-minute visit to a healthcare provider can be helpful to
get medicines and advice for your trip.

### Already abroad and need to see a doctor?

The following list of resources can help international travelers identify
health care providers and facilities around the world. CDC does not endorse
any particular provider or medical insurance company, and accreditation does
not ensure a good outcome.

  * The nearest US embassy or consulate can help travelers locate medical services and notify friends, family, or employer of an emergency. They are available for emergencies 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, overseas and in Washington, DC (888-407-4747 or 202-501-4444).

  * The Department of State maintains a list of travel medical and evacuation insurance providers.
  * The International Society of Travel Medicine maintains a directory of health care professionals with expertise in travel medicine in more than 80 countries.
  * The International Association for Medical Assistance to Travelers maintains a network of physicians, hospitals, and clinics that have agreed to provide care to members.
  * Travel agencies, hotels, and credit card companies (especially those with special privileges) may also provide information.
  * A number of countries or national travel medicine societies have websites related to travel medicine that provide access to clinicians, including the following: 
    * Australia: Travel Medicine Alliance
    * Canada: Health Canada (www.phac-aspc.gc.ca and https://travel.gc.ca)
    * China: International Travel Healthcare Association
    * Great Britain: National Travel Health Network and Centre and British Global and Travel Health Association
    * South Africa: South African Society of Travel Medicine

### More information

Frequently Asked Questions

Traveler Advice

Clinician Tools and Resources



_CDC provides these links to clinics as a convenience to international
travelers. CDC does not endorse, recommend, or favor any clinics on these
lists, nor does the appearance of a clinic on these lists imply a guarantee of
service quality._





* * *

Page last reviewed: November 19, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

  * Destinations
  * Find a Clinicexpand
    * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
      * FAQ
  * Travel Notices
  * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
    * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
      * Clinical Updates
      * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
      * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
      * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
      * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
    * Traveler Adviceexpand
      * After Travel Tips
      * Animal Safety
      * Before You Travel Tips
      * Blood Clots
      * Bug Bites
      * Business Travel
      * Cold Climates
      * Counterfeit Medicines
      * Cruise Ship Travel
      * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
      * During Travel Tips
      * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
      * Food and Water
      * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
        * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
      * High Altitudes
      * Holiday Travel
      * Hot Climates
      * Humanitarian Aid Workers
      * Insurance
      * International Adoption
      * Jet Lag
      * Last-Minute Travel
      * Long-Term Travel
      * Lunar New Year
      * Mass Gatherings
      * Medical Tourism
      * Mental Health
      * Motion Sickness
      * Natural Disasters
      * Pack Smart
      * Posters and Infographicsexpand
        * Posters
        * Prevent Bug Bites
        * Recently in American Tropics?
        * Going to American Tropics?
        * Food and Water: What's Safer
        * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
        * Food and Water: What to Know
        * Road Safety
        * Road Safety - 8 Steps
        * MERS Health Advisory poster
        * MERS Pictogram
        * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
        * Website Guide
        * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
        * Zika: Outbound Travelers
        * Zika: Inbound Travelers
        * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
        * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
      * Pregnant Travelers
      * Road Safety
      * Routine Vaccines
      * Senior Citizens
      * Sex Tourism
      * Spring Break Travel
      * STDs
      * Study Abroad
      * Summer Travel Abroad
      * Sun Exposure
      * Tick Bites
      * Travel to the Extreme
      * Travel Vaccines
      * Traveler Survival Guide
      * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
      * Traveling with Children
      * Traveling with Your Pet
      * Travelers' Diarrhea
      * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
      * Travelers with Disability
      * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
      * Visiting Friends or Relatives
      * Water Disinfection
      * Water Safety Abroad
      * Mobile Apps
      * RSS Feeds
    * Travel Industry Resources
    * Research and Surveillance Partners
  * Disease Directoryexpand
    * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
    * Zika Travel Informationexpand
      * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
  * Yellow Bookexpand
    * Contents
      * Chapter 1
        * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
        * Travel Epidemiology
        *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
    * Tables
    * Maps
    * Figures
    * Boxes
    * Updates
    * About the Yellow Bookexpand
      * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
  * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
    * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

    * Adobe PDF file
    * Microsoft PowerPoint file
    * Microsoft Word file
    * Microsoft Excel file
    * Audio/Video file
    * Apple Quicktime file
    * RealPlayer file
    * Text file
    * Zip Archive file
    * SAS file
    * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

    * About CDC
    * Jobs
    * Funding
    * Policies
    * File Viewers & Players

    * Privacy
    * FOIA
    * No Fear Act
    * OIG
    * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

    * Facebook
    * Twitter
    * Youtube
    * Instagram
  

    * Syndicate
    * CDC TV
    * RSS
    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

    * Email
    * Recommend
    * Tweet
    * Post
    * RSS

###### CDC Media

    * Listen
    * Watch
    * eCards
    * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

