https://www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth/data/yrbs/toolkit.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth/data/yrbs/toolkit.htm    
                Description: Research has shown that school health programs can reduce the prevalence of health risk behaviors among young people and have a positive effect on academic performance.     
                Keywords: Research,  school health programs,  reduce the prevalence,  health risk behaviors among young people,  healthy youth,  positive effect,  academic performance,  schools,  critical role,  promoting,  health and safety,  young people,  lifelong,  healthy behaviors., Healthy Youth    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) Toolkit

Minus

Related Pages

![YRBS Banner](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/resources/yrbs-banner1.jpg)



CDC's Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System (YRBSS) monitors priority health
behaviors and experiences among high school students across the country. The
Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) results help in understanding the factors
that contribute to the leading causes of illness, death and disability among
youth and young adults. From this page you can access resources to educate
partners, stakeholders and community members about adolescent health risk
behaviors and experiences.

clipboard icon

CDC.Gov Feature

chart icon

Data & Documentation

paper icon

Data Summary and Trends Report

pdf icon[PDF - 17 MB]

globe icon

Youth Online Data Analysis Tool

YRBS Graphics

![](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/2018/yrbs-2017-results-thumb.jpg)

Social Media Rectangular Imageimage icon

[1200×630]

![](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/2018/yrbs-2017-results-thumb.jpg)

Twitter Cover Imageimage icon

[1500×500]

![](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/2018/yrbs-2017-results-thumb.jpg)

Facebook Cover Imageimage icon

[820×312]

### YRBS Data Summary and Trends

High-Risk Substance Use

![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS Although
progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting risky
sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and poor
mental health, including suicide risk. HIGH-RISK PROGRESS SUBSTANCE USE
PROGRESS Fewer students have ever used illicit drugs.* *cocaine, heroin,
methamphetamines, inhalants, hallucinogens, or ecstasy. 2007 - 23% compared to
2017 -14%  CHALLENGES Nearly 1 in 7 students have ever misused prescription
opioids. 14% in 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT? These health risk
behaviors and experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually transmitted
diseases, and pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND COMMUNITIES
CAN WORK TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES Learn more
about student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary & Trends Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_HRSU-
medium.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_HRSU.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

Mental Health

![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS Although
progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting risky
sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and poor
mental health, including suicide risk. MENTAL HEALTH PROGRESS Most students
experience positive mental health. Adults can sup port students’ mental health
by watching for warning signs and linking students to help.  CHALLENGES During
the past year, almost 1 in 3 students persistently felt sad or hopeless. 29%
in 2007 compared to 32% in 2017  Students who made a suicide plan: 11% in
2007, 14% in 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT? These health risk
behaviors and experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually transmitted
diseases, and pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND COMMUNITIES
CAN WORK TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES Learn more
about student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary & Trends Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_MH-
medium.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_MH.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

Sexual Behaviors

![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS Although
progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting risky
sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and poor
mental health, including suicide risk. SEXUAL BEHAVIORS  PROGRESS Fewer
students are having sex.   48% in 2007 compared to 40% in 2017   Fewer
students have had 4 or more sex partners. 15% in 2007 compared to 10% in 2017
CHALLENGES Fewer students who have sex are using condoms. 62% in 2007 compared
to 54% in 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT? These health risk behaviors
and experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually transmitted diseases, and
pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND COMMUNITIES CAN WORK
TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES Learn more about
student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary & Trends Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_SB-
medium.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_SB.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

Violence Victimization

![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS Although
progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting risky
sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and poor
mental health, including suicide risk. VIOLENCE VICTIMIZATION  PROGRESS Fewer
male students are bullied at school. 19% in 2007, 16% in 2017  Fewer students
experience sexual dating violence.  10% in 2013, 7% in 2017  CHALLENGES About
1 in 5 students are still bullied at school. 20% in 2007, 19% in 2017  More
than 1 in 10 female students have ever been forced to have sex. 11% in 2007
and 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT? These health risk behaviors and
experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually transmitted diseases, and
pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND COMMUNITIES CAN WORK
TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES Learn more about
student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary & Trends Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_VV-
medium.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_VV.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

### YRBS Infographics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Strategies and Protective Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * School and Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Healthcare Providers

![YRBS_2017 Better Decisions But Not Enough
infographic](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/resources/YRBS_2017_Better-Decisions-
But-Not-Enough.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/resources/YRBS_2017_Better-Decisions-But-
Not-Enough.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SexualRiskBehaviors_STDstatREV-
small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SexualRiskBehaviors_STDstatREV.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![YRBS 2017 Nearly 1 in 7 Opioid Misuse
Infographic](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/resources/YRBS_2017_Nearly-1-in-7-Opioid-
Misuse.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/resources/YRBS_2017_Nearly-1-in-7-Opioid-
Misuse.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![HIV Among Youth Infographic
2018](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/HIV-Youth-2018_thumb.jpg)

Web Version (400px x 1745px)image icon  
Print Version (18″ x 24″) pdf icon[PDF - 756 KB]

![](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/transgender_teens_safe_supportive_schools_new.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/transgender_teens_safe_supportive_schools_new.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![YRBS 2017 SMY Negative Health Experience
Infographic](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/YRBS_2017_SMY-Negative-Health-
Experience_new.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/YRBS_2017_SMY-Negative-Health-
Experience_new.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![YRBS 2017 Youth Face Unequal
Risks](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/YRBS_2017_Youth-Face-Unequal-Risks_new.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/YRBS_2017_Youth-Face-Unequal-Risks_new.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Parent Engagement: Research shows that when parents and school staff work
together, students are healthier and more
successful.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ProtectiveFactors_ParentEngagement-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ProtectiveFactors_ParentEngagement.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![Teens report that their parents have the greatest influence over their risk
behavior decisions--more than friends, siblings, or the
media.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentalInfluence_RiskBehaviors-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentalInfluence_RiskBehaviors.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![Parent Engagement: Research shows that when parents and school staff work
together, students are healthier and more
successful.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentalMonitoring_Asks-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentalMonitoring_Asks.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![Teens report that their parents have the greatest influence over their risk
behavior decisions--more than friends, siblings, or the
media.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentEngagement_SchoolsandParents-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentEngagement_SchoolsandParents.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![Parent Engagement: Research shows that when parents and school staff work
together, students are healthier and more
successful.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_PositiveParenting_MatterofChoice-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_PositiveParenting_MatterofChoice.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![Schools play a critical role in promoting the health and saftey of young
people and helping them establish lifelong healthy
behaviors.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_WhySchools_SchoolHealth-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_WhySchools_SchoolHealth.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Tips-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Tips.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_NotComplicated-
small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_NotComplicated.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_WhySchools_SchoolHealthPrograms-
small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_WhySchools_SchoolHealthPrograms.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_Schools_16Mstat-
small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_Schools_16Mstat.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Web Ready \(1200px x
630px\)](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_4factors-
small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_4factors.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Students-
small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Students.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Illustrations-
small.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Illustrations.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![School-Based Programs for Prevention infographic
thumbnail](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/school_programs_infographic_june-2016_thumb.jpg)

Web Version (400px x 1572px)image icon  
Print Version (20″ x 78″) pdf icon[PDF - 237 KB]

![Infographic: Clinicians can play an important role in keeping LGB Youth
Healthy](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/health_care_provider_2017_thumbnail.jpg)

Print Version (11″ x 17″) pdf icon[PDF - 674 KB]

![Infographic: Clinicians can play an important role in keeping LGBT Youth
Healthy, a
comparison](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/clinicians_role_comparison_infographic_2017_thumbnail.jpg)

Print Version (11″ x 17″) pdf icon[PDF - 744 KB]

![Infographic: As adolescents develop, it makes sense for them to be more
engaged in their own health
care.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_HCP-1-on-1-Time_thumb.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_HCP-1-on-1-Time_thumb.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]



YRBS Data Summary and Trends Report Palm Card

![YRBS Data Summary and Trends Report Palm
Card](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/resources/YRBS_palm-card.jpg)

Print Version (7″ x 5″)pdf icon

Education Agencies

![Fact Sheet: How Schools Can Support HIV Testing Among Adolescents
thumbnail](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/resources/hiv_testing_fact_sheet_thumb100x129.jpg)How
Schools Can Support HIV  
Testing Among Adolescents pdf icon[PDF - 1.07 MB]

![Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education
Agencies Fact Sheet
thumbnail](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/resources/anti_bullying_policies_thumb.jpg)Anti-
Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
pdf icon[PDF - 3.13 MB]

![parentengagement_parents_thumbnail_100x129](/healthyyouth/images/factsheet_thumbnails/PE-
HIV_Prevention_Rationale_thumbnail_100x129.jpg)Promoting Parent Engagement in
Schools to Prevent HIV and other STDs Among Teens: Information for State and
Local Education Agencies pdf icon[PDF - 653K]

![](/healthyyouth/images/shs/shs_fact_sheet_thumb.jpg)Sexual Health Services
(SHS) Fact Sheet pdf icon[PDF - 797K]

![Scope and Sequence cover
thumbnail](/healthyyouth/hecat/images/scope_and_sequence_thumb.jpg)Developing
a Scope and Sequence for Sexual Health Education pdf icon[PDF - 2M]

![parentengagement_administrators_thumbnail_100x129](/healthyyouth/images/factsheet_thumbnails/parentengagement_administrators_thumbnail_100x129.jpg)Parent
Engagement: For School Districts and School Administrators pdf icon[PDF -
852K]

![Fact Sheet: Bullying and Absenteeism: Information for State and Local
Education Agencies
thumbnail](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/resources/fs_bullying_absenteeism_thumb.jpg)Bullying
and Absenteeism: Information for State and Local Education Agencies pdf
icon[PDF - 608 KB]

![Fact Sheet: Substance Use and Sexual Risk Behaviors Among Youth
Thumbnail](/healthyyouth/images/yrbs/resources/dash-substance-use-fact-
sheet_thumb.jpg)Substance Use and Sexual Risk Behaviors Among Youth pdf
icon[PDF - 416 KB]

![parental_monitoring_factsheet_thumbnail_100x129](/healthyyouth/images/factsheet_thumbnails/parental_monitoring_factsheet_thumbnail_100x129.jpg)Monitoring
Your Teen's Activities: What Parents and Families Should Know pdf icon[PDF -
320K]

![parentengagement_teachers_thumbnail_100x129](/healthyyouth/images/factsheet_thumbnails/parentengagement_teachers_thumbnail_100x129.jpg)Parent
Engagement: For Teachers and Other School Staff pdf icon[PDF - 747K]

![](/healthyyouth/hecat/images/developing_scope_factsheet_thumbnail.jpg)Sexual
Health Education Scope and Sequence pdf icon[PDF - 665K]

Parents

![parentengagement_parents_thumbnail_100x129](/healthyyouth/images/factsheet_thumbnails/parentengagement_parents_thumbnail_100x129.jpg)Parent
Engagement: For Parents and Families pdf icon[PDF - 724 KB]

![](/healthyyouth/images/shs/one-on-onetime_factsheet_thumb.jpg)Teen Health
Services and One-On-One Time with A Healthcare Provider: An Infobrief for
Parents pdf icon[PDF - 310 KB]

![](/healthyyouth/images/factsheet_thumbnails/fathers_influence_thumbnail_100x129.jpg)Ways
to Influence Your Teen's Sexual Risk Behavior: What Fathers Can Do pdf
icon[PDF - 157 KB]

![oah_talking_teens_thumbnail](/healthyyouth/images/youth_hiv/oah_talking_teens_thumbnail.jpg)Talking
with Teens - The Office of Adolescent Healthexternal icon

![parental_monitoring_factsheet_thumbnail_100x129](/healthyyouth/images/factsheet_thumbnails/parental_monitoring_factsheet_thumbnail_100x129.jpg)Monitoring
Your Teen's Activities: What Parents and Families Should Know pdf icon[PDF -
320 KB]

![talking_teens_thumbnail_100x129](/healthyyouth/images/factsheet_thumbnails/talking_teens_thumbnail_100x129.jpg)Talking
with Your Teens about Sex: Going Beyond "the Talk" pdf icon[PDF - 1 MB]

![parents_influence_lgb_thumbnail_100x129](/healthyyouth/images/factsheet_thumbnails/parents_influence_lgb_thumbnail_100x129.jpg)Parents'
Influence on the Health of Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Teens: What Parents and
Families Should Know [PDF - 254 KB]

Healthcare Providers

![](/healthyyouth/images/shs/one-on-onetime_factsheet_thumb.jpg)Teen Health
Services and One-On-One Time with A Healthcare Provider: An Infobrief for
Parents pdf icon[PDF - 310K]

![](/healthyyouth/images/shs/shs_fact_sheet_thumb.jpg)Sexual Health Services
(SHS) Fact Sheet pdf icon[PDF - 797K]

![](/healthyyouth/images/shs/referral_system_kit-thumb.jpg)Developing a
Referral System for Sexual Health Servicesexternal icon

Page last reviewed: October 4, 2018

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

clipboard_01  chart_01  paper_01  PDF globe_02  Artboard 124 download_01
image file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

