https://www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth/multimedia/infographics_posters/infographics.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth/multimedia/infographics_posters/infographics.htm    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: Healthy Youth    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Adolescent and School Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Infographics

Minus

Related Pages

**Infographic Topics**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * YRBS Data Summary and Trends
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * HIV and Risk Behaviors in Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Strategies and Protective Factors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * School Health

Multimedia

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Videos

### Adolescent Connectedness

![School and Family Connections in Adolescence Linked to Positive Health
Outcomes in Adulthood. Youth Experience Risks: 17 percent have seriously
considered attempting suicide; 9 percent have had four or more lifetime sex
partners; 14 percent have ever misused prescription pain medicine. School and
family connections help protect youth. Adults who experienced strong
connections as youth were 48 percent-66 percent less likely to: Have mental
health issues; Experience violence; Engage in risky sexual behavior; Use
substances. Schools, families, and providers can help. SCHOOLS can implement
positive youth development programs. PARENTS can have frequent and open
conversations. PROVIDERS can discuss relationships and school
experiences.](/healthyyouth/protective/images/youth_connectedness_visual_abstract.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![School and Family Connections in Adolescence Linked to Positive Health
Outcomes in Adulthood. Youth Experience Risks: 17 percent have seriously
considered attempting suicide; 9 percent have had four or more lifetime sex
partners; 14 percent have ever misused prescription pain medicine. School and
family connections help protect youth. Adults who experienced strong
connections as youth were 48 percent-66 percent less likely to: Have mental
health issues; Experience violence; Engage in risky sexual behavior; Use
substances. Schools, families, and providers can help. SCHOOLS can implement
positive youth development programs. PARENTS can have frequent and open
conversations. PROVIDERS can discuss relationships and school
experiences.](/healthyyouth/protective/images/youth_connectedness_visual_abstract.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Infographic of adolescent connectedness decreased
risks](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_decreased_risks.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Infographic of adolescent connectedness decreased
risks](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_decreased_risks.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![infogrphic of adolescent connectedness
general](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_general.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![infogrphic of adolescent connectedness
general](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_general.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![Inforgraphic of adolescent connectedness
schools](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_strong_connections_decreases_risks-
medium.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Inforgraphic of adolescent connectedness
schools](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_strong_connections_decreases_risks-
medium.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![Inforgraphic of adolescent connectedness
schools](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_schools.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Inforgraphic of adolescent connectedness
schools](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_schools.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![Inforgraphic of adolescent connectedness
hcp](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_hcp.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Inforgraphic of adolescent connectedness
hcp](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/adolescent_connectedness/adolescent_connectedness_hcp.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

Top of Page

### YRBS Data Summary and Trends

![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS Although
progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting risky
sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and poor
mental health, including suicide risk. HIGH-RISK PROGRESS SUBSTANCE USE
PROGRESS Fewer students have ever used illicit drugs.* *cocaine, heroin,
methamphetamines, inhalants, hallucinogens, or ecstasy. 2007 - 23% compared to
2017 -14%  CHALLENGES Nearly 1 in 7 students have ever misused prescription
opioids. 14% in 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT? These health risk
behaviors and experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually transmitted
diseases, and pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND COMMUNITIES
CAN WORK TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES Learn more
about student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary & Trends Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_HRSU.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS
Although progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting
risky sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and
poor mental health, including suicide risk. HIGH-RISK PROGRESS SUBSTANCE USE
PROGRESS Fewer students have ever used illicit drugs.* *cocaine, heroin,
methamphetamines, inhalants, hallucinogens, or ecstasy. 2007 - 23&#37;
compared to 2017 -14&#37;  CHALLENGES Nearly 1 in 7 students have ever misused
prescription opioids. 14&#37; in 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT?
These health risk behaviors and experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually
transmitted diseases, and pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND
COMMUNITIES CAN WORK TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES
Learn more about student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary &amp; Trends
Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_HRSU.png)

## High-Risk Substance Use

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS Although
progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting risky
sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and poor
mental health, including suicide risk. MENTAL HEALTH PROGRESS Most students
experience positive mental health. Adults can sup port students’ mental health
by watching for warning signs and linking students to help.  CHALLENGES During
the past year, almost 1 in 3 students persistently felt sad or hopeless. 29%
in 2007 compared to 32% in 2017  Students who made a suicide plan: 11% in
2007, 14% in 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT? These health risk
behaviors and experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually transmitted
diseases, and pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND COMMUNITIES
CAN WORK TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES Learn more
about student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary & Trends Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_MH.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS
Although progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting
risky sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and
poor mental health, including suicide risk. MENTAL HEALTH PROGRESS Most
students experience positive mental health. Adults can sup port students’
mental health by watching for warning signs and linking students to help.
CHALLENGES During the past year, almost 1 in 3 students persistently felt sad
or hopeless. 29&#37; in 2007 compared to 32&#37; in 2017  Students who made a
suicide plan: 11&#37; in 2007, 14&#37; in 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION
IMPORTANT? These health risk behaviors and experiences can lead to HIV, other
sexually transmitted diseases, and pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS,
FAMILIES, AND COMMUNITIES CAN WORK TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’
HEALTH. RESOURCES Learn more about student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy
Youth website \(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary
&amp; Trends Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_MH.png)

## Mental Health

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS Although
progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting risky
sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and poor
mental health, including suicide risk. SEXUAL BEHAVIORS  PROGRESS Fewer
students are having sex.   48% in 2007 compared to 40% in 2017   Fewer
students have had 4 or more sex partners. 15% in 2007 compared to 10% in 2017
CHALLENGES Fewer students who have sex are using condoms. 62% in 2007 compared
to 54% in 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT? These health risk behaviors
and experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually transmitted diseases, and
pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND COMMUNITIES CAN WORK
TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES Learn more about
student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary & Trends Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_SB.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS
Although progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting
risky sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and
poor mental health, including suicide risk. SEXUAL BEHAVIORS  PROGRESS Fewer
students are having sex.   48&#37; in 2007 compared to 40&#37; in 2017   Fewer
students have had 4 or more sex partners. 15&#37; in 2007 compared to 10&#37;
in 2017  CHALLENGES Fewer students who have sex are using condoms. 62&#37; in
2007 compared to 54&#37; in 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT? These
health risk behaviors and experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually
transmitted diseases, and pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND
COMMUNITIES CAN WORK TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES
Learn more about student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary &amp; Trends
Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_SB.png)

## Sexual Behaviors

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS Although
progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting risky
sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and poor
mental health, including suicide risk. VIOLENCE VICTIMIZATION  PROGRESS Fewer
male students are bullied at school. 19% in 2007, 16% in 2017  Fewer students
experience sexual dating violence.  10% in 2013, 7% in 2017  CHALLENGES About
1 in 5 students are still bullied at school. 20% in 2007, 19% in 2017  More
than 1 in 10 female students have ever been forced to have sex. 11% in 2007
and 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT? These health risk behaviors and
experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually transmitted diseases, and
pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND COMMUNITIES CAN WORK
TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES Learn more about
student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary & Trends Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_VV.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![HEALTH OF HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: YOUTH RISK BEHAVIOR SURVEY RESULTS
Although progress has been made, there are still too many students reporting
risky sexual behaviors, high-risk substance use, violence victimization, and
poor mental health, including suicide risk. VIOLENCE VICTIMIZATION  PROGRESS
Fewer male students are bullied at school. 19&#37; in 2007, 16&#37; in 2017
Fewer students experience sexual dating violence.  10&#37; in 2013, 7&#37; in
2017  CHALLENGES About 1 in 5 students are still bullied at school. 20&#37; in
2007, 19&#37; in 2017  More than 1 in 10 female students have ever been forced
to have sex. 11&#37; in 2007 and 2017  WHY IS THIS INFORMATION IMPORTANT?
These health risk behaviors and experiences can lead to HIV, other sexually
transmitted diseases, and pregnancy. WHAT CAN BE DONE? SCHOOLS, FAMILIES, AND
COMMUNITIES CAN WORK TOGETHER TO POSITIVELY AFFECT STUDENTS’ HEALTH. RESOURCES
Learn more about student health behaviors on CDC’s Healthy Youth website
\(www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth\).  Source: CDC, YRBS Data Summary &amp; Trends
Report:
2007-2017](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_infographic_VV.png)

## Violence Victimization

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

Top of Page

### HIV and Risk Behaviors in Youth

![School-Based Programs for Prevention infographic
thumbnail](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/school_programs_infographic_thumb.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![School-Based Programs for Prevention infographic
thumbnail](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/school_programs_infographic_thumb.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

Web Version (400px x 1572px)image icon  
Print Version (20″ x 78″)pdf icon

![HIV Among Youth Infographic
2018](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/HIV-Youth-2018_thumb.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![HIV Among Youth Infographic
2018](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/HIV-Youth-2018_thumb.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

Web Version (400px x 1745px)image icon  
Print Version (18″ x 24″)pdf icon

![Sexually Transmitted Infections Among Young Americans
infographic.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/sti_youth_200x259.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Sexually Transmitted Infections Among Young Americans
infographic.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/sti_youth_200x259.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

Print Version (8.5″ x 11″)pdf icon

![1 in 5 new HIV diagnoses in the United States occurs in young
people.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_NYHAAD_1in5stat.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![1 in 5 new HIV diagnoses in the United States occurs in young
people.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_NYHAAD_1in5stat.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![CDC estimates that nearly 20 million new sexually transmitted infections
occur every year in the United States, half among young people ages
15-24.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SexualRiskBehaviors_STDstatREV.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![CDC estimates that nearly 20 million new sexually transmitted
infections occur every year in the United States, half among young people ages
15-24.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SexualRiskBehaviors_STDstatREV.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Take charge of your health. Get tested for #HIV
today!](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_HIV_GetTested.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Take charge of your health. Get tested for #HIV
today!](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_HIV_GetTested.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Infographic: DASH snapshot for condoms,
STDS](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_Snapshot_4_Condoms-
STDs-REV.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Infographic: DASH snapshot for condoms,
STDS](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_Snapshot_4_Condoms-
STDs-REV.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Infographic: Students are making better decisions about sexual behaviors and
drug use. But its not enough to protect them from HIV ans
STDs.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_2017_Better-
Decisions_But_Not-Enough.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Infographic: Students are making better decisions about sexual
behaviors and drug use. But its not enough to protect them from HIV ans
STDs.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_2017_Better-
Decisions_But_Not-Enough.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Infographic: Nationwide, nearly 1 in 7 students reported misusing
prescription opioids, which can lead to overdoses and future injection drug
use as well as increased risk for HIV
](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_2017_Nearly_1-in-7_Opioid_Misuse.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Infographic: Nationwide, nearly 1 in 7 students reported misusing
prescription opioids, which can lead to overdoses and future injection drug
use as well as increased risk for HIV
](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/YRBS_2017_Nearly_1-in-7_Opioid_Misuse.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Infographic: Young people make up 5% of more than 1.1 million people in the
US living with HIV. Source: HIV Surveillance Report,
2015](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_HIV_Youth_Stat_Rev.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Infographic: Young people make up 5&#37; of more than 1.1 million
people in the US living with HIV. Source: HIV Surveillance Report,
2015](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_HIV_Youth_Stat_Rev.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![Infographic: Did you know? School health programs can help reduce the risk
for HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases \(STDs\) in
youth](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_DYK-School-Health-
and-STD.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Infographic: Did you know? School health programs can help reduce the
risk for HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases \(STDs\) in
youth](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_DYK-School-Health-
and-STD.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

Top of Page

### Strategies and Protective Factors

![DASH Parent Engagement Schools and
Parents](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentEngagement_SchoolsandParents.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH Parent Engagement Schools and
Parents](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentEngagement_SchoolsandParents.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![Teens report that their parents have the greatest influence over their risk
behavior decisions--more than friends, siblings, or the
media.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentalInfluence_RiskBehaviors.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Teens report that their parents have the greatest influence over their
risk behavior decisions--more than friends, siblings, or the
media.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentalInfluence_RiskBehaviors.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![DASH Positive Parenting Matter of
Choice](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_PositiveParenting_MatterofChoice.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH Positive Parenting Matter of
Choice](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_PositiveParenting_MatterofChoice.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![Parent Engagement: Research shows that when parents and school staff work
together, students are healthier and more
successful.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ProtectiveFactors_ParentEngagement.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Parent Engagement: Research shows that when parents and school staff
work together, students are healthier and more
successful.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ProtectiveFactors_ParentEngagement.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![DASH Parental Monitoring
Asks](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentalMonitoring_Asks.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH Parental Monitoring
Asks](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_ParentalMonitoring_Asks.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![Infographic: Parents are a powerful influence in the lives of their teens.
Research shows that teens who believe their parents disapprove of risky
behaviors are less likely to choose those
behaviors.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_Parent-
Engagement_Powerful_Influence-small.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Infographic: Parents are a powerful influence in the lives of their
teens. Research shows that teens who believe their parents disapprove of risky
behaviors are less likely to choose those
behaviors.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_Parent-
Engagement_Powerful_Influence-small.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

School Health

![2018 School Health Profiles Infographic: School Health Profiles 2018
Results: Assessing school health policies and
practices.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_School_Health_Profiles_1-large.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![2018 School Health Profiles Infographic: School Health Profiles 2018
Results: Assessing school health policies and
practices.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_School_Health_Profiles_1-large.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![2018 School Health Profiles Infographic: Schools can improve the health and
safety of adolescents. Profiles measures the presence of school policies and
practices known to impact student
health.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_School_Health_Profiles_3-large.jpg)image
icon

resize iconView Larger

Close![2018 School Health Profiles Infographic: Schools can improve the health
and safety of adolescents. Profiles measures the presence of school policies
and practices known to impact student
health.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_School_Health_Profiles_3-large.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![2018 School Health Profiles Infographic: In 2018, less than 2% of schools
across states provided on-site HIV or STD testing for
students.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_School_Health_Profile_6-large.jpg)image
icon

resize iconView Larger

Close![2018 School Health Profiles Infographic: In 2018, less than 2% of
schools across states provided on-site HIV or STD testing for
students.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_School_Health_Profile_6-large.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![2018 School Health Profiles Infographic 7: 40% of school across states
reports having a Gay-Straight Alliance in 2018 up from 23% in
2008](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_School_Health_Profile_7-large.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![2018 School Health Profiles Infographic 7: 40% of school across states
reports having a Gay-Straight Alliance in 2018 up from 23% in
2008](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_School_Health_Profile_7-large.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![2018 School Health Profiles Infographic: Since 2008, fewer schools across
states taught HIV prevention topics, dropping from 93% to 87% in
2018.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_School_Health_Profile_8-large.jpg)image
icon

resize iconView Larger

Close![2018 School Health Profiles Infographic: Since 2008, fewer schools
across states taught HIV prevention topics, dropping from 93% to 87% in
2018.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_School_Health_Profile_8-large.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![CDC infographic arranged in three columns. Image title: Transgender Teens
Need Safe & Supportive Schools.   Column 1 title: Transgender students in
school - Almost 2% of high school students identify as transgender. Column 2
title: Transgender students face health risks - 27% feel unsafe at or going to
or from school; 35% are bullied at school; 35% attempt suicide. Column 3
title: Saft and supportive schools can help! - Create and enforce anti-
bullying policies; Identify and train supportive school
staff.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/transgender_teens_safe_supportive_schools-
large.png)image icon

resize iconView Larger

Close![CDC infographic arranged in three columns. Image title: Transgender
Teens Need Safe & Supportive Schools.   Column 1 title: Transgender students
in school - Almost 2% of high school students identify as transgender. Column
2 title: Transgender students face health risks - 27% feel unsafe at or going
to or from school; 35% are bullied at school; 35% attempt suicide. Column 3
title: Saft and supportive schools can help! - Create and enforce anti-
bullying policies; Identify and train supportive school
staff.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/transgender_teens_safe_supportive_schools-
large.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![youth_connectedness_visual_abstract](/healthyyouth/protective/images/youth_connectedness_visual_abstract.jpg)image
icon

resize iconView Larger

Close![youth_connectedness_visual_abstract](/healthyyouth/protective/images/youth_connectedness_visual_abstract.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![health_and_academics_policy_success_story](/healthyyouth/images/health_acad/health_and_academics_policy_success_story-
large.jpg)image icon

resize iconView Larger

Close![health_and_academics_policy_success_story](/healthyyouth/images/health_acad/health_and_academics_policy_success_story-
large.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![DASH_WhySchools_SchoolHealth](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_WhySchools_SchoolHealth.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH_WhySchools_SchoolHealth](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_WhySchools_SchoolHealth.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![DASH_SchoolConnectedness_4factors](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_4factors-
large.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH_SchoolConnectedness_4factors](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_4factors-
large.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![DASH School Connectedness
Tips](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Tips-
large.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH School Connectedness
Tips](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Tips-
large.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

![Schools play a critical role in promoting the health and saftey of young
people and helping them establish lifelong healthy
behaviors.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_WhySchools_SchoolHealthPrograms.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![Schools play a critical role in promoting the health and saftey of
young people and helping them establish lifelong healthy
behaviors.](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_WhySchools_SchoolHealthPrograms.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![DASH Back-to-School
infographic](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH-Back-to-School-
Twitter-1200x675-Text-2-large.jpg)image icon

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH Back-to-School
infographic](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH-Back-to-School-
Twitter-1200x675-Text-2-large.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![DASH School Connectedness_Not
Complicated](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_NotComplicated-
large.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH School Connectedness_Not
Complicated](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_NotComplicated-
large.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![DASH School
Infographic](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_Schools_16Mstat.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH School
Infographic](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_Schools_16Mstat.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Students](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Students.jpg)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Students](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Students.jpg)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[JPG, NAN ]

![DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Illustrations](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Illustrations.png)

resize iconView Larger

Close![DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Illustrations](/healthyyouth/images/multimedia/infographics/DASH_SchoolConnectedness_Illustrations.png)

download iconDownload Imageimage icon[PNG, NAN ]

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: January 24, 2020, 01:35 PM

Content source: Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention

home DASH Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About DASHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * At A Glance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Why Schools?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Adolescent Health: What Works In Schoolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Sexual Health Education
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Sexual Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * What Works: Safe and Supportive School Environments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Youth HIV, STD & Pregnancy Prevention Program Impact
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact DASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adolescent and School Health Policyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * DASH Partner Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Policy Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * School Health Policy Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * State School-Based Health Education Law Summary Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Data & Statisticsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Data By Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Nutrition, Physical Activity, & Obesity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * School Health Profilesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Participation Map & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Requesting Data Files
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * SHPPSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * YRBSSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Participation Maps & History
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Methods
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Questionnaires
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data & Documentation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Trends Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Toolkit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * NYPANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Data Request Form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Disparitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Addressing Health and Educational Disparities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Considerations for LGBTQ Youthplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Protective Factors for LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Health Disparities Among LGBTQ Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Terminology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Survey of Todayâs Adolescent Relationships and Transitions (START)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funded Areasplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Notice of Funding Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded Local Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded State Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded Territorial Agency and Tribal Nation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded NGOs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Success Stories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Protective Factorsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Adolescent Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Parent Engagement in Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Positive Parenting Practices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * School Connectedness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health Services for Teensplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Condom Availability Programs (CAPs)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CAPs: In Brief
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CAPs: Things to Consider
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * High-Risk Substance Use Among Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Sexual Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Program Evaluationplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Evaluations of Innovative Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Additional Evaluation Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Health & Academicsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Anti-Bullying Policies and Enumeration: An Infobrief for Local Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * How the WSCC Model Informs HIV, STD, and Pregnancy Preventionplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * The Whole School, Whole Community, Whole Child (WSCC) Model
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Toolsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * GYT: Get Yourself Tested for High Schools
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Education Curriculum Analysis Tool (HECAT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * HECAT FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Education Teacher Training Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Publications, Registries, and Other Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Journal Articles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Registries of Programs Effective in Reducing Youth Risk Behaviors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * NYHAAD Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * HIV Information and Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Portrait Series
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Other Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Buttons
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Infographics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Palm Cards & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Specific Audiencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Education Agencies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funded Programsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Communication Planning for Program Success
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Grants Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Program Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Reporting Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Health Care Providers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Parents

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

