https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/toolkit/facilitator-guide.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/toolkit/facilitator-guide.htm    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# You Are Not Alone: A Guide for Facilitators

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                      * Part 1 - Letter to Parents
                      * Part 2 - You Are Not Alone Video
                      * Part 3 - Rewind audio
                      * Part 4 - Reach Out Brochure
                      * Part 5 - Resource Guide
                      * Part 6 - Stationery

The CDC's "You Are Not Alone" program supports parents of teenagers who have
epilepsy. The following guide instructs the facilitator (someone who leads
group meetings) to use these tools.

If you are a "You Are Not Alone" program facilitator, we recommend that you
review all of the materials in the kit to become familiar with the issues that
are presented. This can help you:

                      * Plan for discussions using the questions provided in this guide.
                      * Plan your own questions.
                      * Anticipate parents' reactions to the materials.
                      * Tailor the discussion to specific issues the parents may want to explore.
                      * Decide whether to view and discuss the video in one session or view and discuss it in sections.

###  Part 1 - Letter to Parents

Read this letter to parents, which was written by a parent of a child with
epilepsy. It will help them understand how this toolkit can help their
families.

                      * Read the letter 
                      * Download the letter Cdc-pdf[PDF-170K]![facilitator in a group](/epilepsy/images/toolkit/facilitator_250px.jpg)

###  Part 2 - "You Are Not Alone" Video

Introduce the video to your viewers by explaining that the documentary-style
video features the story of two families and other parents who "survived" the
teen years. Share that the video does not cover all experiences or viewpoints,
but merely the experiences of several families.

The video is meant to be a catalyst for discussion about what they are
experiencing. Because of the realism of the video, a wide range of issues,
emotions, and thoughts about parenting a teen with epilepsy may arise. Let
parents know this ahead of time and tell them that after the video, they will
have the opportunity to discuss their reactions.



After showing the video, consider using the questions linked below to
stimulate and direct the discussion. To get parents involved, have them share
one or two points that "spoke to them" in the video. If the group is large,
you may opt to divide it into smaller discussion groups. You can invite each
small group to summarize its discussion and share key points at the end of the
session.

                      * Watch the videoExternal
                      * Questions to Consider
                      * Transcript of the video

**Please note:** Roxanne's aunt mentions that Roxanne was diagnosed at an
Epilepsy Foundation (EF) affiliate. Not all EF affiliates have

clinics associated with them. A diagnosis of epilepsy should only be made by a
medical professional.

###  Part 3 - "Rewind" Conversations

Let parents know that they are about to read the transcripts of three
"overheard conversations" between parents and their teens living with
epilepsy. Each conversation is "rewound" and followed by a different version
of the conversation that demonstrates one way teens think the conversation
should have gone.

As with the video, these conversations address a wide range of issues and
emotions that may come from parenting a teen with epilepsy. Some people may
disagree with some of the alternatives presented in the "rewound"
conversations. Remind them that the "rewound" conversations are meant to
stimulate discussion rather than provide final solutions to the situations
discussed.

You may choose to read the transcript in its entirety. However, we recommend
stopping after each scenario to initiate a discussion with the group, as each
conversation raises very different issues. After each scenario, use the
suggested questions below to stimulate and direct the discussion.

To get parents involved, ask them if any of the dialogues sounded familiar. If
the group is large, you may opt to divide the large group into smaller
discussion groups. You can invite each small group to summarize its discussion
and share key points at the end of the session. After reading all of the
conversations, you may also want to conduct an improvised role-play exercise,
where one parent plays the teen and the other plays the parent.

                      * Transcript of the audio file
                      * Audio Questions to Consider

###  Part 4 - "Reach Out" Brochure

To prepare for the group session, review the contents of the "Reach Out"
brochure and develop discussion points and activities that relate to nurturing
relationships and self-care. In the session, you can either hand out brochures
for parents to read to themselves or have parents take turns reading the
sections aloud. After completing the session, you might also consider giving a
"homework assignment" that builds on the tips in the brochure. For example,
make a date to do something enjoyable with your spouse, take time to go on a
fun outing with one or more of the family, or spend time with your adult
friends in a social setting.

                      * "Reach Out" Brochure

###  Part 5 - Resource Guide

The Resource Guide provides links to additional information on external
websites, including organizations and online sources for more information on
epilepsy and a range of topics related to family and parenting issues.

                      * Resource Guide

###  Part 6 - Stationery

Have the parents brainstorm ways of using this stationery to introduce their
teen's condition and advocate for their teen. Consider giving a "homework
assignment," asking parents to draft letters on the stationery and bring them
to the next session to share with other parents for further discussion.

                      * Stationery Cdc-pdf[PDF - 508KB]

Page last reviewed: March 6, 2019

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                      * About Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Seizure First Aid
                        * Fast Facts
                        * Types of Seizures
                        * FAQs
                        * SUDEPplus icon
                          * SUDEP Information for Parents
                      * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                        * Find Support
                        * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                          * Parentâs Guide
                          * Facilitatorâs Guide
                          * Resource Guide
                        * Clinical Trials 
                      * Preventing Epilepsy
                      * Data and Statistics
                      * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                        * MEW Network
                        * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                      * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                      * Publicationsplus icon
                        * Reports
                        * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                          * Scientific Articles by Year
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Parents
                        * Health Care Providers
                        * Training for Professionals
                        * Schools
                        * Communities
                      * Communications Centerplus icon
                        * Whatâs New
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                        * Featuresplus icon
                          * Spotlight on Seizures
                          * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                          * Epilepsy Self-Management
                          * Epilepsy in Children
                          * Get Seizure Smart!
                          * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                          * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                          * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                        * Podcasts
                        * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

