https://www.cdc.gov/nceh/information/state_factsheets/washington.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/nceh/information/state_factsheets/washington.htm    
                Description: NCEH State Fact Sheets: Washington    
                Keywords: Washington, state fact sheet, environmental health, health data    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

National Center for Environmental Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# NCEH State Fact Sheets: Washington

Minus

Related Pages

CDC 24/7: **_Saving Lives. Protecting People from Health Threats. Saving Money
through Prevention_**.

### Environmental Health

![map icon for Washington](/nceh/information/state_factsheets/WA.jpg)

Your environment is everything around you--the air you breathe, the water you
drink, the community around you, the places where your food is grown or
prepared, your workplace, and your home. When your environment is safe and
healthy, you are more likely to stay healthy. But when your environment
exposes you to dangerous events or toxic substances, your health can be
affected negatively.

CDC is committed to saving lives and protecting people from environmental
hazards by responding to natural and man-made disasters, supporting public
health workers, educating communities, and providing scientific knowledge. We
help maintain and improve the health of Americans by promoting a healthy
environment and preventing premature death and avoidable illness caused by
environmental and related factors. We also identify how people might be
exposed to hazardous substances in the environment and assess exposures to
determine if they are hazardous to human health. CDC invests in prevention to
improve health and save money by reducing healthcare costs. We remain
committed to maximizing the impact of every dollar entrusted to the agency.

### Funded Activities

**National Asthma Control Program**

(FY 2013 funding for Washington--$425,000. A new funding announcement has been
released; FY 2014 funding information will be available later in the year.)

![Photo of Mount Ranier](/nceh/information/state_factsheets/WA1.jpg)

Asthma

In 2008, an estimated 461,670 adults in Washington had asthma.

From: https://www.cdc.gov/asthma/stateprofiles/Asthma_in_WA.pdf Cdc-pdf[PDF -
465 KB]

Asthma is a common disease on the rise, with significant health disparities
and associated healthcare costs. Nearly 1 in 12 Americans (26 million) have
asthma. In the last decade, the proportion of people with asthma, grew by
nearly 15%.

CDC has been working with states for more than 10 years to implement
community-based interventions, build local coalitions, and track the impact of
the disease on the U.S. population.

The program focuses on what works to control asthma: assessing and measuring
changes in disease severity and control, using the right medications,
educating people to manage their conditions, and controlling environmental
irritants and allergens.

Even though the number of people with asthma has increased over the last 10
years, trends show that more are controlling their disease:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 1.7 million fewer people had asthma attacks in 2009.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 233,000 fewer asthma-related hospitalizations occurred in 2008, leading to $3.96 billion in savings in hospital bills.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 1,400 fewer people died of asthma in 2007.

**Environmental Public Health Tracking Program**

(FY 2013 funding for Washington--$714,000. A new funding announcement has been
released; FY 2014 funding information will be available later in the year.)

The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that nearly 25% of all diseases
are caused by environmental exposures. Some of these diseases--such as cancer,
asthma, and cardiovascular disease--are the greatest killers today.

CDC's Environmental Public Health Tracking Network (Tracking Network) is a
dynamic web-based tool that tracks and reports environmental hazards and the
health problems that may be related to them.

The Tracking Network's integrated health, environmental exposure, and hazard
information is used to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Identify interventions and policies to reduce or prevent health effects from environmental exposures.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Assess and research environmental links to diseases.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Learn more about health and environmental issues in the communities where we live.

Since 2005, the Tracking Network has led to at least 160 public health
interventions that prevent or control potential health effects from
environmental exposures.

![Family working in a garden](/nceh/information/state_factsheets/WA2.jpg)

Tracking

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tracking data are available on health indicators such as asthma, birth defects, birth outcomes, carbon monoxide poisoning, cancer, and heart attacks.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tracking data are also available on environmental indicators such as air and drinking water, as well as exposure data such as levels of lead in a person's blood.

From:
http://www.doh.wa.gov/DataandStatisticalReports/EnvironmentalHealth/WashingtonTrackingNetworkWTN.aspxExternal

**National Biomonitoring Program**

(FY 2013 funding for Washington--$1,348,000. A new funding announcement has
been released; FY 2014 funding information will be available later in the
year.)

CDC's National Biomonitoring Program assesses population and individual
exposure to environmental chemicals using direct measurement of environmental
chemicals or their products, in people's blood and urine.

CDC's National Biomonitoring Program helps identify harmful chemical
exposures, protect health, avoid unnecessary regulation, and reduce healthcare
costs through

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Development of unique laboratory methods to detect environmental chemicals in people.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The most comprehensive assessment of the exposure of the U.S. population to more than 300 environmental chemicals.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * More than 50 studies of exposure and health effects per year.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Support to state laboratories to increase national capacity and technical expertise in biomonitoring and to assess specific exposures of concern in states.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Quality assurance, training, and technology transfer to state laboratories conducting biomonitoring.

**Lead Poisoning Prevention Program**

(FY 2011 funding for Washington--$594,000; because of funding reductions, the
program was discontinued in 2012. Some funding was restored in FY 2014. States
will be recompeting for funding and more information will be available later
in the year.)

![Children leaving school](/nceh/information/state_factsheets/WA3.jpg)

Lead

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Of children ages 6 and under who were tested for lead exposure in Washington in 2011, 394 children had blood lead levels of 5 μg/dL or greater.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * *CDC's funding to state lead poisoning prevention programs was eliminated in FY 2012 because of budget reductions.

More than 12 million U.S. children are exposed to lead in their homes at
levels that can harm their intellectual development. No safe blood level in
children has been identified.

Reducing children's lead exposure is perhaps the greatest environmental health
accomplishment in the past 20 years.

For more than 20 years, CDC funded state and local health agencies to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Support surveillance, training, and technical capacity to help identify children with dangerous exposures to lead.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Connect these families and children to appropriate healthcare and case management.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Inspect and remediate unsafe homes.

Children who are exposed to lead lose $3,000 to almost $8,000 in lifetime
productivity for each 1 microgram per deciliter (μg/dL) increase in blood lead
level. Blood lead levels over 1 μg/dL are associated with measurable
reductions in IQ.

Between 2007-2008 and 2009-2010, interventions that control or eliminate lead
hazards before children are exposed (primary prevention) helped reduce the
number of children exposed to lead (blood lead levels ≥ 1μg/dL) by nearly 3
million, saving $26-57 billion in lifetime productivity earnings alone. These
estimates do not account for behavioral and other adverse effects on lifetime
productivity linked to lead.

### Public Health in Action

**Creating Asthma-Friendly Schools for Kids with Asthma in Washington**

Asthma is one of the leading causes of hospitalization for children younger
than age 15 years. About 5 percent of high school students living with the
chronic respiratory disease report missing five or more days of school because
of asthma.

In 2010, the Asthma Program trained about 75 school nurses and health
educators on creating supportive school environments for students with asthma.
The training promotes asthma-friendly policies, calls for every student with
asthma to have an asthma action plan on file, and encourages parental
involvement.

**Environmental Public Health Tracking Helps Connect Air Pollution Control and
Improved Health in Washington**

For American Indians and Alaska Natives in Washington, asthma rates are much
higher than the state average. These cases are also less likely to be well
controlled. Reducing asthma triggers is a key step in preventing asthma
attacks. Smoke can trigger an asthma attack, and non-certified wood burning
stoves are a major source of smoke in some communities.

The Washington Tracking Program partnered with the state Asthma Program to
find out where wood burning stoves-- especially non-certified stoves--were
being used. The data showed that wood burning was common in many communities,
but scientists were most concerned about the high use of non-certified stoves
in tribal communities where asthma rates were also high. They met with tribal
leaders about wood stove use and highlighted how indoor and outdoor smoke from
wood stoves can trigger problems for people with asthma.

After seeing the data about wood stove use and how wood smoke can trigger
asthma, tribal leaders began to mobilize and motivate stakeholders around
their action plan for managing smoke in their communities.

**Biomonitoring in Washington**

![Fishing boat on the water](/nceh/information/state_factsheets/WA4-small.jpg)

CDC funds the Washington State Biomonitoring Program to assess specific
environmental exposures in the state by use of biomonitoring measurements in
blood and urine. Biomonitoring measurements are the most health-relevant
assessments of exposure, indicating the amount of chemical that actually
enters the body from all environmental sources. The state conducts the
Washington Environmental Biomonitoring Survey (WEBS) program to evaluate
state-wide exposure to arsenic, metals, and pesticides. Preliminary results
showed higher arsenic levels in participants of WEBS than in a nationally
representative population. The state public health laboratory is currently
conducting tests for speciated arsenic to identify possible sources of these
exposures. Washington also studies regional exposures in areas with higher
levels of naturally occurring arsenic, and the state lab tested for arsenic in
urine samples collected from residents on south Whidbey Island who used
private wells or small water systems that exceed the US Environmental
Protection Agency's drinking water standard for arsenic.

The state is also testing participants of WEBS for exposure to pyrethroid and
organophosphate pesticides. In 2012, Washington will investigate correlations
between occupational practices and pyrethroid insecticide exposure in
residential pest control professionals. Future projects include assessing
mercury exposures in Asian populations and other residents of the Puget Sound
region who may have higher exposures to mercury from frequent seafood
consumption as well as assessing the impact of Washington's phase-out of
bisphenol A (BPA) in certain children's products and sports water bottles on
BPA exposure in the general state population.

**Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention in Washington ***

The following is a description of activities carried out in in previous years
with the support of CDC's Lead Poisoning Prevention Program when it was fully
funded:

Washington's Healthy Housing and Lead Poisoning Prevention Program aims to
develop infrastructure for a statewide healthy homes program. Program goals
include ensuring homes meet minimum health and safety requirements and
reducing disease and injury from housing-related hazards.

Since 1993, the Washington State Department of Health's Blood Lead Registry
has maintained records of all blood lead tests on Washington children. This
allows the state to identify cases of elevated lead levels for follow-up with
case management and education, to assess trends in lead exposure, and to
identify communities at increased risk for lead exposure.

Top of Page

View Page In:Cdc-pdf PDF [2M]

Page last reviewed: April 29, 2014

Content source: National Center for Environmental Health

home Environmental Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About NCEH expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Budget Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sharing Our Stories: NCEHâs Impact on Public Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Program Overviews expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Built Environment and Health Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Climate and Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Environmental Health Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Environmental Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Environmental Public Health Tracking Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * National Asthma Control Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Radiation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Safe Water Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * State Fact Sheets expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * California
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Connecticut
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hawaii
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Illinois
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Iowa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Louisiana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Maryland
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Montana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * New York
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Washington
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Wisconsin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Data Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Emergency Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NCEH A-Z Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NCEH Press Room expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * News Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Programs & Divisions expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Division of Environmental Health Science and Practice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Division of Laboratory Sciences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Publications & Products expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Books/Booklets expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Housing Reference Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Housing Inspection Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Training

Related Pages

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Employment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Press Room 

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

