https://www.cdc.gov/nceh/information/state_factsheets/iowa.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/nceh/information/state_factsheets/iowa.htm    
                Description: NCEH State Fact Sheets: Iowa    
                Keywords: Iowa, state fact sheet, environmental health, health data    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

National Center for Environmental Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# NCEH State Fact Sheets: Iowa

Minus

Related Pages

CDC 24/7: **_Saving Lives. Protecting People from Health Threats. Saving Money
through Prevention_**.

### Environmental Health

![map icon for Iowa](/nceh/information/state_factsheets/IA.jpg)

Your environment is everything around you--the air you breathe, the water you
drink, the community around you, the places where your food is grown or
prepared, your workplace, and your home. When your environment is safe and
healthy, you are more likely to stay healthy. But when your environment
exposes you to dangerous events or toxic substances, your health can be
affected negatively.

CDC is committed to saving lives and protecting people from environmental
hazards by responding to natural and man-made disasters, supporting public
health workers, educating communities, and providing scientific knowledge. We
help maintain and improve the health of Americans by promoting a healthy
environment and preventing premature death and avoidable illness caused by
environmental and related factors. We also identify how people might be
exposed to hazardous substances in the environment and assess exposures to
determine if they are hazardous to human health. CDC invests in prevention to
improve health and save money by reducing healthcare costs. We remain
committed to maximizing the impact of every dollar entrusted to the agency.

### Funded Activities

**Core Environmental Health Services Program**

(FY 2013 funding for Iowa--$118,000. FY 2014 funding information will be
available later in the year.)

![Senior couple shopping at a farmers
market](/nceh/information/state_factsheets/IA1-small.jpg)

Foodborne and waterborne outbreaks result in millions of illnesses and
thousands of deaths each year. They can cost the United States more than $150
billion annually.

Historically, clean drinking water systems have been responsible for reducing
overall deaths in large cities by nearly one-half and child deaths by nearly
two-thirds. Current estimated hospitalization costs for just three common
waterborne diseases (Legionnaires' disease, cryptosporidiosis, and giardiasis)
in the United States are between $149 and $539 million per year.

CDC's Core Environmental Health Services program is the only federal program
that provides essential leadership and guidance to the nation's frontline
environmental health department staff.

**CDC 's program**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Supports the professional development of environmental public health staff. This staff makes up 25% of the nation's state, local, and tribal public health workforce and is essential to public health emergency response.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Helps domestic water programs prevent waterborne diseases.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funds state and local health programs to investigate root causes of foodborne illness outbreaks.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Responds rapidly to environmental disasters, including tornados, floods, foodborne and waterborne disease outbreaks, and control of vectorborne diseases.

**Environmental Public Health Tracking Program**

(FY 2013 funding for Iowa--$455,000. A new funding announcement has been
released; FY 2014 funding information will be available later in the year.)

The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that nearly 25% of all diseases
are caused by environmental exposures. Some of these diseases--such as cancer,
asthma, and cardiovascular disease--are the greatest killers today.

CDC's Environmental Public Health Tracking Network (Tracking Network) is a
dynamic web-based tool that tracks and reports environmental hazards and the
health problems that may be related to them.

The Tracking Network's integrated health, environmental exposure, and hazard
information is used to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Identify interventions and inform policies to reduce or prevent health effects from environmental exposures.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Assess and research environmental links to diseases.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Learn more about health and environmental issues in the communities where we live.

Since 2005, the Tracking Network has led to at least 160 public health
interventions that prevent or control potential health effects from
environmental exposures.

![Small town in the countryside](/nceh/information/state_factsheets/IA2.jpg)

Tracking

Beginning in August 2010, a 4-year grant from CDC allows IDPH to work with
other state and local agencies and non-governmental organizations to develop
and implement an Iowa Environmental Public Health Tracking Network. The Iowa
Tracking Program implemented its state network in fall 2012.

From: https://tracking.idph.iowa.gov/External

**Lead Poisoning Prevention**

(FY 2011 funding for Iowa--$594,000; because of funding reductions, the
program was discontinued in 2012. Some funding was restored in FY 2014. States
will be recompeting for funding and more information will be available later
in the year.)

More than 12 million U.S. children are exposed to lead in their homes at
levels which can harm their intellectual development. No safe blood level in
children has been identified.

Reducing children's lead exposure is perhaps the greatest environmental health
accomplishment in the past 20 years.

For more than 20 years, CDC funded state and local health agencies to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Support surveillance, training, and technical capacity that help identify children with dangerous exposure to lead.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Connect these children and their families to appropriate health care and case management.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Inspect and remediate unsafe homes.

Children who are exposed to lead lose $3,000 to almost $8,00 in lifetime
productivity for each 1 microgram per deciliter (μg/dL) increase in blood lead
level. Blood lead levels over 1 μg/dL are associated with measurable
reductions in IQ.

Between 2007-2008 and 2009-2010, interventions that control or eliminate lead
hazards before children are exposed (primary prevention), helped reduce the
number of children exposed to lead (blood lead levels ≥ 1μg/dL) by nearly 3
million, saving $26-57 billion in lifetime productivity earnings alone. These
estimates do not account for behavioral and other adverse effects on lifetime
productivity linked to lead.

**Safe Water Program**

(FY 2013 funding for Iowa--$140,000. FY 2014 funding information will be
available later in the year.)

About 15% of households in the United States get their drinking water from
private wells and other unregulated sources where little is known about the
quality of water.

The Safe Water Program prevents human exposure to and disease from infectious
and non-infectious waterborne contaminants by

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Building state capacity to identify and address unregulated drinking water issues.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Advancing the science to describe the health effects of drinking water contaminants.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Promoting effective, evidence-based strategies to prevent exposure to drinking water contaminants.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Improving capacity to respond to environmental emergencies that affect water.

### Public Health in Action

![Irrigation sprayer in a field](/nceh/information/state_factsheets/IA3.jpg)

Core Environmental Health

The Cerro Gordo County Department of Public Health is working on a water
practice project to determine the source of arsenic found in the county's
groundwater.

From: http://www.cdc.gov/nceh/ehs/EHSNet/partners/cerro-gordo.htm

**Arsenic Contamination in Cerro Gordo County**

CDC's Environmental Health Specialist Network (EHS-Net) is a collaboration
among environmental health specialists, epidemiologists, and laboratorians
aimed at preventing illness and outbreaks related to environmental hazards in
food and water.

EHS-Net is working in Cerro Gordo County, Iowa to understand arsenic
contamination of the county's well water. Some regions of the United States
have high levels of naturally occurring arsenic in groundwater. Exposure to
dangerous levels of arsenic can be hazardous to human health. Its effects
include arsenic poisoning, damage to major organ systems, reproductive health
problems, and cancer. EHS-Net's efforts aim to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * minimize the public's risk for arsenic exposure,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * determine groundwater arsenic concentrations,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * identify possible sources of arsenic,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * analyze rock samples from new wells,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * establish best practices for well construction, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * keep homeowners informed about possible health risks.

**Tracking Pesticide Use in Iowa**

Private water wells can be contaminated by pesticides, especially in farming
areas. Contact with pesticides may be related to a variety of acute and
chronic health problems. About 15% of Iowans use private wells for drinking
water. The Iowa Tracking Program helps identify areas with high pesticide use
and monitors those areas for health problems related to pesticides. This is
done in collaboration with the State Hygienic Laboratory and the Iowa
Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship to map off-label pesticide use,
pesticide sales, pesticide application statistics, and private well
contamination data. This work helps improve the state's ability to measure
pesticide exposure and helps the Iowa Department of Public Health to determine
if education, intervention programs, regulations, or guidelines are needed for
monitoring drinking wells.

**Tracking Nitrates and Cancer in Iowa**

Nitrate contamination of drinking water often is found in farming areas,
usually from fertilizer runoff and human and animal waste. Some studies in
Iowa have suggested a link between nitrate exposure and cancer. The Iowa
Tracking Program will make private and public water supply data and cancer
data available to explore possible links between nitrates in drinking water
and cancer. Being able to link water and cancer data may help show
associations between health effects data and nitrate contamination data.
Further scientific evidence will help to create nitrate management policies
and public education materials.

**Lead Poisoning Prevention in Iowa ***

The following describes activities carried out in previous years with the
support of CDC's Lead Poisoning Prevention Program when it was fully funded:

CDC funding supported Iowa's Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program
(CLPPP) in its efforts to reduce unsafe lead levels among children under age
6. The state passed legislation in 2008 that requires all children entering
kindergarten to be tested for lead poisoning. Iowa's CLPPP monitors compliance
with the requirement and follows up with children who have not been tested.

Most of the pre-1950s homes in the state contain lead-based paint, which comes
into contact with young children through contaminated soil, dust, and paint
chips. The statewide program provides technical assistance to Title V child
health clinics and public health agencies in 71 counties, as well as direct
services in 28 counties. Iowa's CLPPP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * identifies children with elevated blood lead levels through testing,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * assists with case management,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * educates communities about childhood lead poisoning,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * involves community leaders in lead poisoning prevention, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * manages blood lead testing and case management data.

Partners include local health departments, Title V child health clinics,
health care providers, area education agencies, and housing agencies.

The state also collects data on blood lead levels of Iowans over the age of 16
through the Adult Blood Lead Epidemiology and Surveillance (ABLES) program.
The program conducts interventions for adults with blood lead levels greater
or equal to 25 μg/dL by sending information, conducting phone interviews, and
working with individuals and workplaces to reduce lead exposure. On several
occasions, ABLES also identified cases where children were exposed to lead due
to their parents' exposure in the workplace.

Iowa's Lead Professional Certification Program provides training and
certification of lead professionals, including lead inspectors, risk
assessors, lead abatement contractors, and renovators. The program assures
that lead professionals properly and safely identify and eliminate lead
hazards. As of 2009, almost 6,000 workers had completed a lead-safe work
practices training program. In addition, Iowa's CLPPP provides comprehensive
training to child care providers on lead-based paint hazards.

![Small child playing with building
blocks](/nceh/information/state_factsheets/IA4.jpg)

Lead

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Of children ages 6 and under who were tested for blood lead in Iowa in 2011, 30,852 children had elevated blood lead levels (5 μg/dL or greater).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * *CDC's funding to state lead poisoning prevention programs was eliminated in FY 2012 because of budget reductions.

Top of Page

View Page In:Cdc-pdf PDF [2M]

Page last reviewed: April 30, 2014

Content source: National Center for Environmental Health

home Environmental Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About NCEH expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Budget Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sharing Our Stories: NCEHâs Impact on Public Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Program Overviews expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Built Environment and Health Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Climate and Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Environmental Health Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Environmental Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Environmental Public Health Tracking Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * National Asthma Control Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Radiation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Safe Water Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * State Fact Sheets expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * California
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Connecticut
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hawaii
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Illinois
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Iowa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Louisiana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Maryland
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Montana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * New York
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Washington
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Wisconsin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Data Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Emergency Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NCEH A-Z Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NCEH Press Room expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * News Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Programs & Divisions expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Division of Environmental Health Science and Practice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Division of Laboratory Sciences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Publications & Products expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Books/Booklets expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Housing Reference Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Housing Inspection Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Training

Related Pages

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Employment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Press Room 

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external  PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

