https://www.cdc.gov/nceh/information/healthy_homes_lead.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/nceh/information/healthy_homes_lead.htm    
                Description: NCEH/ATSDR Program Overviews/State Fact Sheets    
                Keywords: National Center for Environmental Health, Data, Resources,Health Data, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,Bureau of Labor Statistics,Biomonitoring Data, Environmental Data, Environmental Protection Agency, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Food and Drug Administration, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, U.S. Geological Survey, Census Bureau, Query Engines , Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality ,Environmental Protection Agency, National Cancer Institute    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

National Center for Environmental Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# CDCâs Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program

Minus

Related Pages

**CDC 24/7: Saving Lives. Protecting People from Health Threats. Saving Money
Through Prevention.**

### Environmental Health

![lead in toys](/nceh/information/images/leadintoys_456px.jpg)

Today, children in at least 4 million U.S. households [i] are exposed to high
levels of lead. There are approximately half a million U.S. children ages 1-5
with blood lead levels above 5 micrograms per deciliter, the reference level
at which CDC recommends public health actions to prevent or mitigate exposure
be initiated.

Your environment is everything around you--the air you breathe, the water you
drink, the community you live in, the places where your food is grown or
prepared, your workplace, and your home. When your environment is safe and
healthy, you are more likely to stay healthy. But when your environment
exposes you to dangerous events or toxic substances, your health can be
negatively affected.

CDC is committed to saving lives and protecting people from environmental
hazards by responding to natural and man-made disasters, supporting state and
city public health programs, educating communities, and providing scientific
knowledge. We help maintain and improve the health of Americans by promoting a
healthy environment and preventing premature death and avoidable illness
caused by environmental and related factors. We also identify how people might
be exposed to hazardous substances in the environment and assess exposures to
determine if they are hazardous to human health. CDC invests in prevention to
improve health and save money by reducing health care costs. We remain
committed to maximizing the impact of every dollar entrusted to the agency.

### Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program

CDC's Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program and its partners have driven
a significant decline in the number of children with elevated blood lead
levels over the past 20 years with various prevention strategies to protect
children from lead exposure.

**However, there is no known safe level of lead, and millions of children are
still exposed to lead in their homes.**

Lead exposure can affect nearly every system in the body and is associated
with numerous behavioral and learning problems (e.g. reduced IQ, attention-
deficit/hyperactivity disorder, juvenile delinquency, and criminal behavior).
Research indicates that even low levels of lead in a child's blood can affect
IQ, the ability to pay attention, and academic achievement. The effects of
lead exposure cannot be corrected. Because lead exposure often occurs with no
obvious symptoms, it frequently goes unrecognized.

### What does the Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program do?

CDC's Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program helps prevent childhood lead
exposure through:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Surveillance: CDC surveillance data trigger actions to protect children from lead exposure and to serve children who have already been lead poisoned. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * These data are used by CDC, health departments, and other agencies to target limited resources to the highest risk children and to track incidence and risk factors.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * For example, HUD uses CDC lead surveillance data to identify rental housing properties that have led to multiple children being lead poisoned. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Environmental Protection Agency, and Department of Justice then use the CDC data to target their enforcement actions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * National expertise, guidance, and recommendations.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Collaboration with federal agencies including HUD, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Consumer Product Safety Commission, and Health Resources and Services Administration.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding for lead poisoning prevention programs and staff in state or local health departments.

### Is the Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program making a difference?

CDC's Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program's efforts have led to
enormous success in protecting children from lead exposure:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * • Between 2008 and 2010, CDC and its state programs helped reduce the number of children ages 1-5 with blood lead levels ≥ 1 μg/dL **by nearly 3 million, saving $26 -57 billion** in lifetime productivity earnings alone. These estimates do not account for behavioral and other adverse effects on lifetime productivity linked to lead exposure, such as attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, juvenile delinquency, criminal behavior, and an increased need for special education.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC provided technical assistance to support the development of state and local lead-screening plans and abatement laws. By 2009, 27 states had comprehensive laws requiring lead paint abatement (whereas only 3 states had such laws in 1990).
Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program Funding **Childhood Lead Poisoning
Prevention Program Funding**  
---  
Year | Funding Level  
FY 2014 | $15,522,000  
FY 2015 | $15,522,000  
FY 2016 | $17,000,000  
  
### Funding at Work

##### Building and Strengthening Lead Surveillance Systems

**New York City** : New York City's Lead Poisoning Prevention Program used
small-area analyses to identify communities where high blood lead levels
persist. The analyses alerted staff to the Greenpoint, Brooklyn, neighborhood
where children are disproportionately at risk for high blood lead levels.
Greenpoint is home to a community of Orthodox Jews.

Because they had limited understanding of the cultural heritage of this close-
knit community, the lead program collaborated with local rabbis, translated
health education materials into Yiddish, and conducted an awareness campaign
on childhood lead poisoning, its prevention, and how families can report lead
hazards such as peeling paint.

According to New York City lead program staff, _" The CDC support was
essential to having the tools to identify and respond to the needs of this
small community."_

##### Collaborating with Partners

**Washington** : Washington's State Health Officer chaired an expert panel to
develop risk-based childhood lead screening recommendations for use by
clinicians statewide. The recommendations included a one-page clinical
algorithm for screening, a list of key risk factors to consider, and a link to
an interactive mapping tool for identifying communities by census tract that
are at a higher risk for lead exposure.

Based on the new recommendations, the program partnered with the state Refugee
Health Program to screen all refugee children 6 months-16 years.

**For More Information**

National Center for Environmental Health  
www.cdc.gov/nceh

Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program  
www.cdc.gov/nceh/lead

![Old house in an old
neighborhood.](/nceh/information/overview_photos/lead2.jpg)

**Louisiana** : Louisiana data showed that some children attending special
nutrition projects at local Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) clinics do not
receive routine health prevention services, and therefore are unlikely to
receive blood lead testing at a medical clinic.

The Louisiana Healthy Homes and Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program
partnered with a New Orleans area WIC clinic to pilot a blood lead testing
program. The goals for the project were to increase lead testing rates of
children in Louisiana and to determine the percent of children tested during
WIC clinic visit who had elevated blood lead levels.

By matching WIC client lists with surveillance data, the program demonstrated
that WIC clinics are an efficient way to screen high-risk children who would
not otherwise be tested. During the pilot phase, the program ensured blood
lead testing for 1,395 children, 81% of whom had never had a previous test.
The project has expanded to include WIC clinics in other high-risk areas of
the state.

Twenty-five percent of the increase in child lead testing in Louisiana between
July 2014 and April 2015 was attributable to the WIC clinic testing pilot
project.

##### Educating Parents and Clinical Providers

**Mississippi** : The Mississippi Lead Poisoning Prevention and Healthy Homes
Program used CDC cooperative agreement funds to partner with six communities
identified as high-risk areas for lead poisoning: the cities of Meridian,
Jackson, Hattiesburg, West Point, Moss Point, and Yazoo.

Between July 1 and December 31, 2015, city partners facilitated lead poisoning
prevention and healthy homes trainings, planned and conducted healthy homes
community planning meetings featuring focused discussion on childhood lead
poisoning prevention, and distributed health education materials to residents.

Through focused campaigns, the communities distributed 2,000 lead poisoning
prevention educational materials featuring details about lead testing and
identifying lead sources. The communities also distributed 900 lead poisoning
prevention toolkits to resident families. Since 2010, the number of children
tested for lead in increased 18%.

Equipped with information about lead poisoning, the cities are reviewing,
planning, and implementing methods for updating environmental health
ordinances.

* * *

[i] American Healthy Homes Survey: Lead and Arsenic Findings. 2011.  Available
at: https://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/documents/huddoc%3Fid=AHHS_Report.pdfCdc-
pdfExternal

View Page In: PDF [972K]

Page last reviewed: April 4, 2017

Content source: National Center for Environmental Health

home Environmental Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About NCEH expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Budget Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sharing Our Stories: NCEHâs Impact on Public Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Program Overviews expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Built Environment and Health Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Climate and Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Environmental Health Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Environmental Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Environmental Public Health Tracking Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * National Asthma Control Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Radiation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Safe Water Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * State Fact Sheets expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * California
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Connecticut
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hawaii
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Illinois
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Iowa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Louisiana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Maryland
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Montana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * New York
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Washington
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Wisconsin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Data Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Emergency Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NCEH A-Z Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NCEH Press Room expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * News Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Programs & Divisions expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Division of Environmental Health Science and Practice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Division of Laboratory Sciences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Publications & Products expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Books/Booklets expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Housing Reference Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Housing Inspection Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Training

Related Pages

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Employment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Press Room 

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

