https://www.cdc.gov/nceh/information/ehs.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/nceh/information/ehs.htm    
                Description: NCEH/ATSDR Program Overviews/State Fact Sheets    
                Keywords: National Center for Environmental Health, Data, Resources,Health Data, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,Bureau of Labor Statistics,Biomonitoring Data, Environmental Data, Environmental Protection Agency, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Food and Drug Administration, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, U.S. Geological Survey, Census Bureau, Query Engines , Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality ,Environmental Protection Agency, National Cancer Institute    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

National Center for Environmental Health

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# CDC's Core Environmental Health Services

Minus

Related Pages

**CDC 24/7: Saving Lives. Protecting People from Health Threats. Saving Money
through Prevention.**

## Environmental Health

Your environment is everything around you -- the air you breathe, the water
you drink, the community you live in, the places where your food is grown or
prepared, your workplace, and your home. When your environment is safe and
healthy, you are more likely to stay healthy. But when your environment
exposes you to hazardous substances or dangerous events, your health can be
negatively affected.

CDC is committed to saving lives and protecting people from unsafe exposures
by responding to natural and man-made disasters, supporting state and local
public health programs, educating communities, and providing scientific
knowledge. We help maintain and improve the health of Americans by promoting a
healthy environment and preventing premature death and avoidable illness
caused by environmental and related factors. We also identify how people might
be exposed to hazardous substances in the environment and assess exposures to
determine if they are hazardous to human health. CDC invests in prevention to
improve health and save money by reducing health care costs. We remain
committed to maximizing the impact of every dollar entrusted to the agency.

![Top: water from faucet pouring into glass, Bottom: preparing
food](/nceh/information/overview_photos/ehs.jpg)

## Core Environmental Health Services

Did you take a shower, drink a glass of water, eat at a restaurant, or go for
a swim today? Part of the reason we can engage in these everyday activities
without worrying about getting sick is that environmental health professionals
in our communities work behind the scenes to keep these activities safe.

In the United States, state, local, tribal and territorial environmental
health practitioners make sure our water and food stay safe. They prevent
outbreaks through permitting and inspection programs for drinking water and
wastewater systems, restaurants, school cafeterias, swimming pools, and other
facilities.

Environmental health practitioners also investigate outbreaks to identify
their environmental causes. They often are activated during emergency
responses to perform crucial functions such as assessing shelters and food
establishments, testing drinking water supplies, and controlling disease-
carrying organisms (vectors). CDC provides practice-based research, training,
technical assistance, and evidence-based guidance for these frontline workers.

**Environmental Health Specialists Network (EHS-Net):** A CDC-led
collaboration of federal, state, and local partners, EHS-Net conducts
practice-based research to identify environmental causes of foodborne and
waterborne illness outbreaks. Through the National Voluntary Environmental
Assessment Information System, CDC tracks information from environmental
assessments conducted during outbreak investigations.

**Training:** CDC offers practical, relevant training for environmental health
professionals.

_E-Learning on Environmental Assessment of Foodborne Illness Outbreaks_
provides a virtual food service environment to help professionals assess
environmental health contributors to foodborne illness outbreaks and
standardize environmental assessments.

_Environmental Public Health Online Courses_ provide free training for
professionals to study for national credentialing exams or to improve their
technical knowledge in the field.

_Environmental Health Training in Emergency Response_ helps practitioners
apply environmental health expertise to emergencies.

_Vector Control for Environmental Health Professionals_ emphasizes the use of
integrated pest management to address public health pests and vectors that
spread pathogens, including Zika virus and others.

**Technical Assistance:** At the request of states, localities, tribes, and
territories, CDC provides assistance to address environmental components of
outbreaks and emergencies.

**Evidence-Based Guidance:** CDC environmental health services staff develops
practical, evidence-based guidance on important environmental health issues.

  |  
---|---  
  
## Public Health in Action

Safer, healthier food and control of infectious diseases with clean water and
sanitation are among the top U.S. public health achievements of the 20th
century. Countries without these systems see higher rates of death,
particularly among children. CDC's environmental health services staff works
to protect these important advancements through practice-based research,
technical assistance, training, and evidence-based guidance. Following is a
sample of recent success stories related to these functions:

**EHS-Net.** A study from an EHS-Net state contributed to a finding by the
Food and Drug Administration to amend its Food Code to include a ban on the
sale of undercooked ground beef in children's menus. CDC and collaborators
have completed several studies on environmental factors contributing to
foodborne illness outbreaks. In addition to this research, EHS-Net created
simple, easy-to-understand fact sheets to help busy environmental health and
food safety professionals easily access findings and recommendations from
those studies. This information can help them promote food safety and prevent
outbreaks.

**Training.** CDC's Environmental Health Training in Emergency Response has
armed thousands of environmental health professionals with the knowledge and
tools--such as shelter assessment forms--needed to effectively protect public
health in the aftermath of disasters. In several instances, disasters struck
shortly after students completed the training, and they were able to respond
effectively by working collaboratively with local partners, conducting
assessments and food safety inspections, testing drinking water supplies, and
controlling disease-causing vectors.

**Technical Assistance.** In 2012, CDC worked with tribal communities to
control Rocky Mountain spotted fever after the vectorborne disease outbreak
killed 18 people. CDC helped develop and implement a reservation-wide dog
collaring program to halt disease spread by dogs, the main source of exposure
to disease-transmitting ticks. This and other prevention measures have
dramatically reduced the risk of additional cases in reservation communities.

CDC also contributes environmental health expertise to foodborne and
waterborne illness outbreaks. Examples include technical assistance in the
Salmonella outbreak associated with peanut butter and in response to the 2010
cholera outbreak that followed the earthquake in Haiti.

**Evidence-Based Guidance.** CDC is collaborating with public health and
industry experts to develop the Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC). The MAHC
would provide evidencebased standards to help state and local public health
programs reduce risk for waterborne illness outbreaks and drowning, as well as
chemical and other injuries at pools, waterparks, and other aquatic venues
within their jurisdictions.

CDC also has provided environmental health expertise to organizations creating
food policy. Additionally, CDC has developed tools such as a boil-water
advisory toolkit and a guide for hospitals on ensuring water supply during an
emergency for state, local, and tribal partners.

|  ![Top; inspecting property, Bottom: children in swimming
pool](/nceh/information/overview_photos/ehs2.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Each year in the United States, foodborne illness outbreaks result in 48 million illnesses, more than 128,000 hospitalizations, and 3,000 deaths.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Acute foodborne illnesses also cost the United States an estimated _$152 billion_ per year in healthcare, workplace, and other economic losses.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Waterborne illnesses cost the United States as much as _$970 million dollars_ a year in hospitalization costs alone. Outbreaks of waterborne disease associated with recreational water have significantly increased over the past several decades, drowning continues to injure and claim the lives of far too many, and swimming-related emergency room visits are in the thousands each year.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Historically, clean drinking water systems have been responsible for reducing overall deaths in large cities by nearly one-half and child deaths by nearly twothirds. Aging drinking water and wastewater infrastructure and reduced funding for state and local disease prevention could jeopardize past advances.  
  
View Page In:Cdc-pdf PDF [455K]

Page last reviewed: February 26, 2013

Content source: National Center for Environmental Health

home Environmental Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About NCEH expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Budget Information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sharing Our Stories: NCEHâs Impact on Public Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Strategic Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Program Overviews expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Built Environment and Health Initiative
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Climate and Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Environmental Health Laboratory
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Environmental Health Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Environmental Public Health Tracking Network
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * National Asthma Control Program
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Radiation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Safe Water Programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * State Fact Sheets expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * California
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Connecticut
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hawaii
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Illinois
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Iowa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Louisiana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Maryland
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Montana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * New York
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Washington
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Wisconsin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Data Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Emergency Response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NCEH A-Z Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * NCEH Press Room expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * News Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Programs & Divisions expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Division of Environmental Health Science and Practice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Division of Laboratory Sciences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Publications & Products expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Books/Booklets expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Housing Reference Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Healthy Housing Inspection Manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Training

Related Pages

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Employment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Press Room 

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

