https://www.cdc.gov/nceh/ehs/activities/water.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/nceh/ehs/activities/water.html    
                Description: Learn how to keep your water resources safe, including recreational water, private wells, drinking water, and emergency water supply, with our free tools.    
                Keywords: WFEHS water safety,  water resources,  Safe WATCH,  PreventLD Training,  private wells,  drinking water,  MAHC,  recreational water,  drought guidance,  emergency water supply,  tools,  training., Environmental Safety &amp; Health    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Environmental Health Services (EHS)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

# Safe Water Resources

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tools and Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Research
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Investigations

Learn how to keep your water resources safe, including recreational water,
private wells, drinking water, and emergency water supply, with our free
tools.

Jump to our resources for private wells or Legionnaires' disease.

Tools and Guidance

CDC's Model Aquatic Health Code

![MAHC Cover image](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/MAHC-cover-140.png)

Reduce risk for waterborne illness outbreaks, drowning, and chemical poisoning
at public pools and other aquatic venues with these free science-based
guidelines.

Safe Water for Community Health (Safe WATCH) Tools and Promotional Materials

![Thumbnail image of the first page of the Safe WATCH
infographic.](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/Safe-WATCH-Infographic-thumbnail-
cover.jpg)

Access videos, posters, and other tools from health departments working to
reduce exposures from private wells.

Infographic on the Safe Water for Community Health (Safe WATCH) Program

![1 in 8 Americans get their drinking water from a private
well.](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/1-8-dw-square.jpg)

Learn how CDC works with health departments to improve well water programs.

Private Water Network (National Environmental Health Association)

![Private Water Network Logo](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/Private-Water-
Network.png)

Join this virtual community for resources on private water issues, including a
discussion forum, resources library, event calendar, webinars, and newsletters
(produced in collaboration with CDC).

Legionnaires' Disease Resources for Environmental Health Professionals

![Photo of testing and sampling equipment.](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/leg-
test-equip.jpg)

Explore Legionella resources for environmental health practitioners, including
a Vital Signs report and infographic, environmental sampling videos, toolkit
for developing a water management plan, and more.

Drinking Water Advisory Communication Toolbox

![Cover image for the 2016 Drinking Water Advisory Communication
Toolbox.](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/dwact-140.png)

Access resources to help communities with all phases of water advisories
including guidance, recommendations, instructions, templates, and other tools.

Emergency Water Supply Planning Guide for Hospitals and Healthcare Facilities

![Cover photo of the Emergency Water Supply Planning Guide for Hospitals and
Healthcare Facilities](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/ewspg-hhf-140.jpg)

Develop an Emergency Water Supply Plan to prepare for, respond to, and recover
from a total or partial interruption of health facilities' normal water
supply.

Guidance on Microbial Contamination in Previously Flooded Outdoor Areas

![Guidance on Microbial Contamination in Previously Flooded Outdoor
Areas](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/guidance-floods.jpg)

Learn how to assess the public health risks for using areas after a flood
where potential exposure to microbial contamination exists.

Drought Guidance for Public Health Professionals - When Every Drop Counts

![When Every Drop Counts cover image](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/drought-
cover.jpg)

Understand and prepare for drought in your community with this guide for
public health professionals.

Training

Environmental Health Training in Emergency Response (EHTER)

![EHTER](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/EHTER.jpg)

Improve your knowledge, skills, and resources to address the environmental
health impacts of emergencies and disasters on potable water and waste water.

Environmental Public Health Online Courses (EPHOC)

![Photo of an EPHOC instructor giving course on Pest
Control](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/ephoc-instruct.jpg)

Access comprehensive workforce development resources for environmental public
health practitioners with this free package of 15 e-learning courses, with
topics including potable water, waste water, and swimming pools and
recreational facilities.

Pool Inspection Training for Environmental Health Professionals

![Banner: Pool Inspection Training for Environmental Health
Professionals](/nceh/ehs/elearn/images/pool-inspection-banner.jpg)

Improve your inspection skills by learning about aquatic facility systems and
walking through a pool inspection using CDC's Model Aquatic Health Code (MAHC)
inspection form.

Preventing Legionnaires' Disease: A Training on Legionella Water Management
Programs (PreventLD Training)

![PreventLD Training](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/prevent-ld-140.png)

Learn to create a water management program to reduce risk for Legionnaires'
disease.

Safe Water Program Improvement e-Learning Series (SWPI)

![Graphic image of faucet in a circle with the words SAFE WATER Program
Improvement around it.](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/swpi-140.png)

Take CDC's training for safer well water through stronger public health
programs using the 10 Essential Environmental Public Health Services.

Research

Decentralized Wastewater Management Research

![Graphic image of plot of land with an area for run off
water.](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/waste-water.jpg)

Explore our collection of resources around wastewater management research.

EHS-Net Water Safety Projects

![Photo of hand offering a glass of water.](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/hand-
water-glass.jpg)

Read about water safety projects by funded Environmental Health Specialists
Network partners in fiscal years 2010-2015.

Water Publications

![Image of a shelf of publications](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/pubs-
shelf.jpg)

Read our water publications on such topics as wastewater management,
waterborne disease outbreaks, drought, drinking water, recreational water, and
global water.

Investigations

Legionnaires' Disease Outbreak at a Long-Term Care Facility in Ohio, 2013 [PDF
- 688 KB]

![Cover image for the December Journal of Environmental
Health.](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/legion-jeh-cover.jpg)

On July 9, 2013, an outbreak of Legionnaires' disease was identified at a
Long-Term Care Facility in central Ohio. This article describes the
investigation of the outbreak and identification of the source, a cooling
tower using an automated biocide delivery system. EHS participated in the
environmental assessment.

South Bass Island Assessment [PDF - 1.97 MB]

![Image of a map of South Bass Island](/nceh/ehs/activities/images/south-bass-
map.jpg)

At the request of the Ohio Department of Health, EHS investigated the
potential sources of water contamination on South Bass Island in 2004. Ohio
asked for assistance because slightly more than 1,000 persons reported a
sudden onset of symptoms that included diarrhea, cramps, nausea, and vomiting.

Page last reviewed: January 7, 2020

Content source: National Center for Environmental Health

home EHS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * EHS Program Activitiesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Food Safetyplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * EATS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * EHS-Net
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * NEARS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Safe Waterplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Legionnairesâ Disease Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Onsite Wastewater Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Preventing Legionnairesâ Disease (PreventLD Training)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Private Well Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Safe Water for Community Health (Safe WATCH)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Safe Water Program Improvement e-Learning Series (SWPI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Vector Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Performance Improvementplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * EnvPHPS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Resources by Essential Service
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tribal Drinking Water Program Improvement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * UNCOVER EHplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About UNCOVER EH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Infographic on Key Findings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tools & Guidanceplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MAHC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Researchplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Can Restaurant Managers Talk with Sick Workers?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Environmental Investigationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RMSF Rodeo Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Irrigation Water and Spinach _E. coli_ Outbreak

EHS Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About EHS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Program Activities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * EHS Publications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * EHS Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * EHS A - Z Index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * EHS Listserv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * EHS News and Features

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

