https://www.cdc.gov/nchhstp/newsroom/default.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/nchhstp/newsroom/default.html    
                Description: Your Connection to the Latest HIV/AIDS, Hepatitis, STD and TB News at CDC    
                Keywords: NCHHSTP,  News,  NCHHSTP Newsroom,  Media,  Press Release,  HIV,  STD,  TB,  hepatitis,  News archive, Viral Hepatitis, STD Prevention (Sexually Transmitted Disease), Healthy Youth, Tuberculosis (TB), Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs), HIV/AIDS and STDs, HIV/AIDS    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

NCHHSTP Newsroom

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate

# NCHHSTP Newsroom

Minus

Related Pages

![World TB Day - MARCH 19, 2020](/nchhstp/newsroom/images/2020/World-TB-
Day-2020.jpg)

CDC Releases Latest Data on Tuberculosis

New CDC data highlight need to strengthen U.S. TB control efforts

![A diverse group of people](/nchhstp/newsroom/images/features/2019/CDC-vital-
signs.jpg)

CDC Vital Signs: Ending HIV Transmission

CDC analysis finds HIV testing, treatment, and prevention are not reaching
enough Americans

![Syphilis in newborns is a tragic consequence of the growing STD
epidemic](/nchhstp/newsroom/images/features/2019/STD-Surveillance-Report.jpg)

STDs Continue to Rise in the U.S.

Syphilis in newborns is a tragic consequence of the growing STD epidemic

![The time is now. Ending the HIV
Epidemic.](/nchhstp/newsroom/images/features/2019/time-is-now.jpg)

HHS Awards $13.5 Million For State and Local Planning Efforts

![A diverse group of adolescents, National HIV Testing Day. Get tested. Share
your story. June 27](/nchhstp/newsroom/images/features/2019/NHTD-2019.jpg)

Most Americans Have Never Had an HIV Test, New Data Show

New CDC analysis highlights the need for scaled up HIV testing - a critical
component of the federal plan to end US HIV epidemic

![This graphic illustrates data from a new CDC study. The three data points
highlighted are that when teens felt connected to family and school, they were
65% less likely to use illicit drugs or misuse prescription drugs as adults,
54% less likely to be diagnosed with an STD as adults, and 51% less likely to
report having experienced physical violence in the past year as
adults.](/nchhstp/newsroom/images/features/2019/Adolescent-Connectedness.jpg)

Adolescent Connectedness and Adult Health Outcomes

New CDC study further suggests family and school support for youth protects
against multiple health risks into adulthood

Media Inquiries

 **HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STDs or TB**  
(404) 639-8895 | M-F 9am-5:30pm (ET) | Email

**All Other Topics**  
(404) 639-3286 | Email

**After Hours**  
(770) 488-7100

**Media Inquiry Form**

More About Us

### Latest News & Announcements

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * All
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * HIV/AIDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Viral Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthy Youth

#### **CDC Releases Latest Data on Tuberculosis** - March 19, 2020

Ahead of World TB Day, new CDC data shows that TB case counts are the lowest
number on record, and also highlights the need to strengthen U.S. TB control
efforts.

Media Summary | MMWR | Graphics | Fact Sheetpdf icon

* * *

#### **CDC Vital Signs: Ending HIV Transmission -- Test, Treat, and Prevent**
- December 3, 2019

Far too many Americans with HIV are unaware that they have it. Far too few
have the virus under control through effective treatment. And far too few
Americans at risk for HIV are taking the daily pill that prevents HIV.

Press Release | Graphics | MMWR

* * *

#### **STDs increased for the fifth consecutive year, reaching all-time high**
- October 8, 2019

CDC's 2018 STD Surveillance Report show increases across all three of the most
commonly reported STDs, with syphilis among newborns as a growing threat.

Press Release | Full Report | Fact Sheetpdf icon | Graphics

* * *

#### **HHS Awards $13.5 Million to Accelerate State and Local Planning Efforts
for _Ending the HIV Epidemic: A Plan for America_** - October 2, 2019

The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), through CDC, has
awarded funds to conduct state and local planning and kick off community
involvement for the proposed federal initiative to end the HIV epidemic in
America.

Press Release

* * *

#### **Most Americans Have Never Had an HIV Test, New Data Show** - June 27,
2019

New CDC data show that most people in the United States have never had an HIV
test - though CDC recommends that everyone between the ages of 13 - 64 years
be screened at least once in their lifetime.

Press Release | Comunicado de Prensa | MMWR | Data Summarypdf icon

* * *

#### **Adolescent Connectedness and Adult Health Outcomes** - June 24, 2019

Helping young people feel engaged and cared for at home and at school -- also
called connectedness -- may have substantial health benefits that last well
beyond their teenage years, suggests a CDC study published in Pediatrics.

Press Release | Articleexternal icon | Graphics

* * *

#### **Updated Recommendations for TB Screening, Testing and Treatment of U.S.
Health Care Personnel** - May 16, 2019

Historically, U.S. health care personnel were at increased risk for latent TB
infection (LTBI) and TB disease from occupational exposures, but recent data
suggest that this is no longer the case. CDC and the National Tuberculosis
Controllers Association have updated the 2005 CDC recommendations for health
care personnel.

Media Summary |  MMWR  | Graphics



More News

#### **CDC Vital Signs: Ending HIV Transmission -- Test, Treat, and Prevent**
- December 3, 2019

Far too many Americans with HIV are unaware that they have it. Far too few
have the virus under control through effective treatment. And far too few
Americans at risk for HIV are taking the daily pill that prevents HIV.

Press Release | Graphics | MMWR

* * *

#### **HHS Awards $13.5 Million to Accelerate State and Local Planning Efforts
for _Ending the HIV Epidemic: A Plan for America_** - October 2, 2019

The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), through CDC, has
awarded funds to conduct state and local planning and kick off community
involvement for the proposed federal initiative to end the HIV epidemic in
America.

Press Release

* * *

#### **Most Americans Have Never Had an HIV Test, New Data Show** - June 27,
2019

New CDC data show that most people in the United States have never had an HIV
test - though CDC recommends that everyone between the ages of 13 - 64 years
be screened at least once in their lifetime.

Press Release | Comunicado de Prensa | MMWR | Data Summarypdf icon

* * *

#### **Leading HIV Experts Convene 2019 National HIV Prevention Conference** -
March 18, 2019

In support of the conference theme - _Getting to No New Infections_ -
speakers, including U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services **Alex M. Azar
II** , CDC Director **Robert R. Redfield, M.D.** , National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases Director **Anthony S. Fauci, M.D.** , Health
Resources & Services Administration HIV/AIDS Bureau Associate Administrator,
**Laura Cheever, M.D.** , and NCHHSTP Director **Jonathan Mermin, M.D.** ,
will share their vision and insights on the coordinated federal effort to
eliminate HIV in the United States within a decade: Ending the HIV Epidemic: A
Plan for Americaexternal icon.

Press Release

* * *

#### **CDC Vital Signs: HIV Transmission along the Continuum of Care, 2016** -
March 18, 2019

Published on the first day of CDC's 2019 National HIV Prevention Conference, a
new CDC Vital Signs report provides the latest data on the impact of
undiagnosed and untreated HIV in the nation and underscores the critical need
to expand HIV testing and treatment in the U.S.

Press Release | MMWR | Graphics | Vital Signs

* * *

#### **2019 Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections** - March
7, 2019

A new CDC analysis presented today at the Conference on Retroviruses and
Opportunistic Infections in Seattle, Washington finds more gay and bisexual
men at high risk for HIV are using pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), but
significant gaps remain - especially among African Americans and Latinos.

* * *

#### **Progress in HIV prevention has stalled; need for immediate action--
'Ending the Epidemic: A Plan for America'** - February 27, 2019

Annual HIV infections ("HIV incidence") in the United States have been reduced
by more than two-thirds since the height of the epidemic in the mid-1980s, but
CDC data indicate that progress has stalled in recent years. Following about
five years of declines, the estimated number of new HIV infections began to
level off in 2013 at about 39,000 per year -- reinforcing the need for more
action to end America's HIV epidemic. The report also finds that new HIV
infections declined in some populations, but increased in others.

Press Release | Fact Sheetpdf icon | Data Summarypdf icon |Graphics | Full
Reportpdf icon | HIV.govexternal icon

* * *

####  **2018 Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections** - March
6, 2018

A new CDC analysis presented today at the Conference on Retroviruses and
Opportunistic Infections in Boston, Mass., suggests only a small percentage of
Americans who could benefit from pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) have been
prescribed it. Furthermore, while two-thirds of people who could potentially
benefit are African American or Latino, they account for the smallest
percentage of PrEP prescriptions to date. Additionally, two new CDC analyses
presented at CROI demonstrate the effectiveness of SSPs and HIV testing and
treatment in helping to end a large outbreak of HIV among people who inject
drugs (PWID).

Press Release | Graphics | Data Tableimage icon | Additional Studies of
Interest



More HIV/AIDS Resources

#### **STDs increased for the fifth consecutive year, reaching all-time high**
- October 8, 2019

CDC's 2018 STD Surveillance Report show increases across all three of the most
commonly reported STDs, with syphilis among newborns as a growing threat.

Press Release | Full Report | Fact Sheetpdf icon | Graphics

* * *

####  **Newborn syphilis cases more than double in four years, reaching
20-year high** - September 25, 2018

CDC's 2017 STD Surveillance Report show increases of congenital syphilis -
when syphilis is passed from mother to baby during pregnancy or delivery - are
outpacing overall increases of STDs nationwide.

Press Release | Full Report | Fact Sheetpdf icon | Graphics

* * *

####  **2018 STD Prevention Conference: New CDC Analysis Shows Steep and
Sustained Increases in STDs** - August 28, 2018

CDC presented preliminary surveillance data at the 2018 STD Prevention
Conference in Washington, D.C. It found recent increases in sexually
transmitted diseases (STDs) have continued for four consecutive years -- and
that the nearly 2.3 million cases of chlamydia, gonorrhea and syphilis
reported to CDC for 2017 exceed the previous 2016 record by more than 200,000
cases. CDC also presented the latest information on emerging antibiotic
resistance in gonorrhea -- and underscored the continued concerns about this
potential threat.

Press Release | Telebriefing Transcript | Data Tablepdf icon | Graphics

* * *

#### **CDC data released today show STD diagnoses at record high in U.S.** -
September 26, 2017

New CDC data show more than two million cases of chlamydia, gonorrhea and
syphilis were reported in the United States in 2016, the highest number ever,
according to the annual Sexually Transmitted Disease (STD) Surveillance Report
released today.

Press Release | Full Reportpdf icon | Fact Sheetpdf icon | Graphics



More STD Resources

#### **CDC Releases Latest Data on Tuberculosis** - March 19, 2020

Ahead of World TB Day, new CDC data shows that TB case counts are the lowest
number on record, and also highlights the need to strengthen U.S. TB control
efforts.

Media Summary | MMWR | Graphics | Fact Sheetpdf icon

* * *

#### **Updated Recommendations for TB Screening, Testing and Treatment of U.S.
Health Care Personnel** - May 16, 2019

Historically, U.S. health care personnel were at increased risk for latent TB
infection (LTBI) and TB disease from occupational exposures, but recent data
suggest that this is no longer the case. CDC and the National Tuberculosis
Controllers Association have updated the 2005 CDC recommendations for health
care personnel.

Media Summary |  MMWR  | Graphics

* * *

#### **CDC Releases Preliminary 2018 TB Data** - March 21, 2019

Preliminary 2018 data, released today in advance of World TB Day, show that
while TB case counts are the lowest on record, there is slowed progress toward
TB elimination.

Media Summary | Graphics | MMWR

* * *

####  **CDC Releases Updated Recommendations for Treatment of Latent TB
Infection** - June 28, 2018

CDC released updated recommendations for use of once-weekly isoniazid-
rifapentine for 12 weeks (3HP) for treatment of latent TB infection. The
updated recommendations support expanded use of an effective, shorter,
treatment regimen to reach even more people with latent TB infection.

Media Summary  |   Graphics  |   _MMWR_ | Fact Sheetpdf icon

* * *

####  **Tuberculosis continues to decline in the U.S., but progress toward
elimination is slowing** - March 22, 2018

Preliminary 2017 data, released today in advance of World TB Day, show that
while TB case counts reached a record low in 2017, the rate of decline is too
slow to eliminate TB during this century.

Press Release | Fact Sheetpdf icon | _MMWR_ | Graphics | Audio Clips

More TB Resources

#### **CDC Estimates Nearly 2.4 Million Americans Living with Hepatitis C** -
November 6, 2018

Nearly 2.4 million Americans - 1 percent of the adult population - were living
with hepatitis C from 2013 through 2016, according to new CDC estimates. Data
highlight urgent need to diagnose and cure more Americans and address rising
infections due to opioid crisis.

Press Release | Full Reportexternal icon | Graphics

* * *

####  **Increase in Hepatitis C Infections Linked to Worsening Opioid Crisis**
- December 21, 2017

New CDC research suggests the recent steep increase in cases of acute
hepatitis C virus infection is associated with increases in opioid injection.

Press Release | Full Reportexternal icon | Graphics

* * *

####  **New Hepatitis C Infections Nearly Tripled Over Five Years** - May 11,
2017

New preliminary data released today shows that, in over just five years, the
number of new hepatitis C infections reported to CDC has nearly tripled,
reaching a 15-year high. The greatest increases, and the highest overall
number of cases, were among young people 20-29, with injection drug use as the
primary route of transmission. However, the majority (three-quarters) of the
3.5 million Americans already living with hepatitis C are baby boomers, born
from 1945 to 1965, who are six times more likely to be infected with hepatitis
C than those in other age groups and are at much greater risk for death from
the virus.

Press Release | Full Report |  _MMWR_  | Media Summary | Graphics



More Hepatitis Resources

#### **Adolescent Connectedness and Adult Health Outcomes** - June 24, 2019

Helping young people feel engaged and cared for at home and at school -- also
called connectedness -- may have substantial health benefits that last well
beyond their teenage years, suggests a CDC study published in Pediatrics.

Press Release | Articleexternal icon | Graphics

* * *

####  **CDC Data Provide Insights on the Risk of HIV & STDs Among Nation's
Youth** - June 14, 2018

The 2017 YRBS data reveals disparities across multiple health risk behaviors
and experiences in the areas of sexual risk behavior, substance abuse,
violence victimization, mental health and suicide for all U.S. high school
students.

Press Release |   Data Summaries  |   Graphics   |   Responsible Reporting
Guidepdf icon   |   _MMWR_ | Trends Reportpdf icon

* * *

####  **CDC Releases New Data on the Connection between Health and Academics**
- September 7, 2017

CDC researchers analyzed data from the 2015 Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS)
to better assess the relationship between academic achievement and 30 health
behaviors, including dietary, physical activity, substance use, sexual risk,
violence-related and suicide-related behaviors. The results confirm that
students with lower grades reported higher levels of health risk behaviors -
and students with higher grades were more likely to report healthy behaviors.

Digital Press Kit



More Healthy Youth Resources

Resources for News Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * News Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Multimedia Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * HIV/AIDS Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Ending the HIV Epidemic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STD Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Viral Hepatitis Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthy Youth Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NCHHSTP Experts

Get Email Updates

Enter your email address to get updates about this site:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Calendar of Events

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **February 7:**  National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **February 27- 29:**  The Union - North American Region Conferenceexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **March 8-11:**  Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections (CROI)external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * **March 11-14:** Society for Adolescent Health and Medicineexternal icon

* * *

All Conferences

All Health Observances

Related CDC Sites

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NCHHSTP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * HIV/AIDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Tuberculosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Viral Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Healthy Youth
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Global HIV & Tuberculosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC Newsroom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vital Signs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * MMWR

![NCHHSTP's Prevention Through Health Care Web
site](/nchhstp/newsroom/images/buttons-badges/PTHC-Button.jpg)

![The NCHHSTP AtlasPlus is an interactive tool that provides CDC an effective
way to disseminate HIV, Viral Hepatitis, STD,  TB data and Social Determinants
of Health Data, while allowing users to observe trends and patterns by
creating detailed reports, maps, and other graphics. Find out
more!](/nchhstp/atlas/images/buttons/AtlasPlus-180x150.jpg)

CDC's HIV, hepatitis, STD, &  
TB data made interactive

Page last reviewed: November 6, 2018

Content source: National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB
Prevention

home NCHHSTP Newsroom

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Newsroom Releasesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2020 Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2019 Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2018 Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2017 Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2016 Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2015 Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2014 Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2013 Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2012 Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * 2011 Releases
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Media Resources by Topicplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * HIV/AIDS Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * STD Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tuberculosis Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Viral Hepatitis Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Healthy Youth Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Fact Sheets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Multimedia Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * HIV/AIDS Multimedia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * STD Multimedia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tuberculosis Multimedia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Viral Hepatitis Multimedia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Healthy Youth Multimedia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NCHHSTP Experts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Event Calendar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About the NCHHSTP Newsroom

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

