https://www.cdc.gov/foodsafety/Link: https://www.cdc.gov/foodsafety/    
                Description: Get information from CDC on preventing food poisoning, food poisoning symptoms, foodborne disease outbreaks, and recalled food.    
                Keywords: food poisoning, foodborne illness, food safety, foodborne disease, contaminated food, foodborne disease outbreaks, Food Safety    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Food Safety

Section Navigation

CDC Home

              * Facebook
              * Twitter
              * LinkedIn
              * Email
              * Syndicate

# Food Safety

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![4 Steps to Food Safety - Clean, Separate, Cook and
Chill](/foodsafety/images/flexslider/4-steps-banner-revised.jpg)

Learn about four steps to prevent food poisoning at home.

![This illustration, created at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
\(CDC\), reveals ultrastructural morphology exhibited by coronaviruses. Note
the spikes that adorn the outer surface of the virus, which impart the look of
a corona surrounding the virion, when viewed electron microscopically. A novel
coronavirus, named Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus 2 \(SARS-
CoV-2\), was identified as the cause of an outbreak of respiratory illness
first detected in Wuhan, China in 2019. The illness caused by this virus has
been named coronavirus disease 2019
\(COVID-19\).](/foodsafety/images/homepage/covid-19.jpg)

**Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)**  
There is currently no evidence to support transmission of COVID-19 associated
with food. Get answers to other questions about COVID-19 and food from CDC,
the Food and Drug Administrationexternal icon, and the U.S. Department of
Agricultureexternal icon.

handwashing icon

How to Prevent Food Poisoning

procedures solid icon

Food Poisoning Symptoms

people icon

People With a Higher Risk of Food Poisoning

food icon

Foods That Can Cause Food Poisoning

lab icon

Foodborne Germs and Illnesses

weather icon

Keep Food Safe After a Disaster or Emergency

alert icon

Foodborne Outbreaks

tablet alt icon

Educational Materials

medical icon

Healthcare Professionals

building icon

Health Departments

#### Food Safety Recalls

![Scientist takes bacterial cells](/foodsafety/images/homepage/cdc-and-food-
safety-button.jpg)

CDC's Role in Food Safety

![Shopper inspecting some meat before putting it into a shopping
basket.](/foodsafety/images/homepage/challenges-in-foodsafety-button.jpg)

Challenges in Food Safety

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive regular CDC updates on food safety, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Read previous newsletters

Page last reviewed: March 24, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Foodborne,
Waterborne, and Environmental Diseases (DFWED)

Â

home Food Safety Home Page

              * How to Prevent Food Poisoningplus icon
                * Basic Food Safetyplus icon
                  * Key Facts About Food Poisoning
                  * Four Steps to Food Safety
                  * 10 Dangerous Food Safety Mistakes
                  * Food Safety in the Kitchen
                  * Meal Kit and Food Delivery Safety
                  * Fruit and Vegetable Safety
                  * Cleaning Your Refrigerator Because of a Food Recall
                  * Food Safety and Eating Out
                * Food Safety for Special Events, Seasons, and Holidaysplus icon
                  * Food Safety Tips for Holiday Turkey
                  * Food Safety Tips for Holidays
                  * Preparing Chitlins Safely
                  * Say No to Raw Dough
                  * Food Safety for Buffets and Parties
                  * Game Day Food Safety Tips
                  * How to Grill Safely
              * Food Poisoning Symptoms
              * People With a Higher Risk
              * Foods That Can Cause Food Poisoningplus icon
                * Handling and Preparing Common Foods
                * Chicken and Food Poisoning
                * Raw Milk Dangersplus icon
                  * Trying to Decide About Raw Milk?
                  * Raw Milk Myths
                  * Raw Milk Questions and Answers
                  * Real Stories of the Dangers of Raw Milk
                  * Outbreak Studies
                  * Resources & Publications
              * Foodborne Germs and Illnessesplus icon
                * A-Z Index
              * Keep Food Safe After a Disaster or Emergencyplus icon
                * Food Safety for Power Outages
              * Foodborne Outbreaks
              * Educational Materialsplus icon
                * Patient Storiesplus icon
                  * _Salmonella_ Illness Linked to Chicken: AJâs Story
                  * Baby Chicks and _Salmonella_ : Tylerâs Story
                  * Sick Kids, Dairy Calves, and Antibiotics That Donât Work: Dr. Megin Nicholsâs Story
                * Videos
                * Infographics
                * Social Media Graphics
                * Food Safety Features
                * Food Safety Education Monthplus icon
                  * Social Media
                * Food Safety Newsletters
              * Healthcare Professionals
              * Health Departments
              * CDCâs Role in Food Safetyplus icon
                * Food Safety Modernization Act
              * Challenges in Food Safetyplus icon
                * Antibiotic Resistance
                * Culture-Independent Diagnostic Tests
                * How Food Gets Contaminated

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

              * About CDC
              * Jobs
              * Funding
              * Policies
              * File Viewers & Players

              * Privacy
              * FOIA
              * No Fear Act
              * OIG
              * Nondiscrimination
              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

              * Facebook
              * Twitter
              * Youtube
              * Instagram
  

              * Syndicate
              * CDC TV
              * RSS
              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

              * Facebook
              * Twitter
              * LinkedIn
              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

