http://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/ntsip/ace.htmlLink: http://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/ntsip/ace.html    
                Description: National Toxic Substances Incident Program (NTSIP): Incident Investigations    
                Keywords: protect people, reduce harm, spills, leaks, toxic substances, harmful spills, toxic substance incidents, Hazardous Substances Emergency Events Surveillance Program, ATSDR, National Toxic Substances Incidents Program, NTSIP, Toxic Substances     
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Agency for Toxic Substance and Disease Registration Agency for Toxic Substance
and Disease Registration

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

National Toxic Substance Incidents Program (NTSIP)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate

# Incident Investigations

Minus

Related Pages

### Assessment of Chemical Exposures (ACE) Program

When chemical releases happen suddenly, ATSDR can provide local authorities
with valuable help through the ACE program.

In June 2011, after a chemical incident at a poultry processing facility, 600
workers were potentially exposed to chlorine, 170 of whom needed
transportation to five area hospitals for medical evaluation. The state
Department of Health asked ATSDR to assist in the investigation of the
incident, including an evaluation of the emergency response. An ACE team was
deployed in response. The team discovered that the state Department of
Emergency Management was not required to notify the health department when the
incident occurred. This resulted in missed opportunities for assistance, such
as coordinating with local hospitals regarding where patients were transported
for care or providing treatment protocols for chlorine gas.

After the ACE investigation identified the issue, the Department of Emergency
Management modified their procedure for notification of the state health
department to include any incident involving a biological, chemical,
radiological, or nuclear substance. About two weeks after the procedures were
modified, two different ammonia releases occurred in the same city as the
previous release. Because of the new procedures, emergency management
officials immediately notified the health department of the incidents,
resulting in a more coordinated and effective response.

What is ACE?

When toxic substance spills or chemical emergencies happen, ATSDR helps state
and local health departments by providing ACE resources to perform a rapid
epidemiologic assessment.

Webinar on ATSDR Assessment of Chemical Exposures (ACE) Program

![smoke rising from an incident site](/ntsip/images/newspotlight2.jpg)

What resources does ACE provide?

ACE provides training on how to perform an epidemiologic assessment after a
chemical incident. The ACE Toolkit is a helpful resource to assist local
authorities in responding to or preparing for a chemical release. The toolkit
contains materials that can quickly be modified to meet the needs of a local
team performing an epidemiologic assessment, including:

![hazard symbols](/ntsip/local/images/hazard_3symbols.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Surveys
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Consent forms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Medical chart abstraction form
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interviewer training manual
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Epi Info™7 databases to enter and analyze the data

When an incident occurs ACE provides technical assistance by forming a multi-
disciplinary, often multi-agency, team to assist the state and local health
department. Team members may assist from ATSDR headquarters in Atlanta,
Georgia or deploy to the scene.

Other support the ACE team can provide is:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * GIS mapping and assistance with sample methodologies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Clinical testing, if appropriate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Liaising with other federal agencies

What happens during an ACE investigation?

##### ACE talks with incident responders and hospital staff that treated
patients to understand

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * what happened,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * who was exposed,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * steps taken to protect public health, such as an evacuation or shelter-in-place order,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * communication during the response, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * lessons learned during the response.

##### ACE also interviews people who may have been exposed to collect detailed
information on

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * exposure history,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * symptoms experienced,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * who was exposed,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * health services used,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * needs resulting from the exposure,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * medical history,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * how people received information about the release, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * health impacts on pets.

ACE typically reviews hospital medical charts and veterinary chart
abstractions to learn more details about health effects experienced as a
result of the release. ACE may also assist in collecting and analyzing
clinical samples if a laboratory test is available to determine exposure to
the substance. If testing is done, results are sent to participants to share
with their physicians.

Why perform an ACE investigation?

##### State and local health departments can use information obtained from
rapid assessments to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * assess impact of the release on individuals as well as the community,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * direct the public health response,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * target outreach to prevent similar incidents,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * assess the need to modify emergency response procedures, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * identify a group of exposed people that may need to be followed-for long-term effects.

A body of data from multiple incidents can be used for education and training
to prepare for future incidents.

What are some examples of ACE investigations?

The ACE team worked with the state or local health agency on the
investigations and public health actions described below. Additionally, ATSDR
has partnered with other public health and safety agencies, like the National
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) to work on chemical
releases. The goals of each investigation were determined by the inviting
agency. Each investigation involved multiple components, including
interviewing responders and owners/managers of facilities, surveying exposed
persons and staff at hospitals where patients were treated, and reviewing
hospital charts for patients treated for chemical exposure.

* * *

##### **Chlorine release at a metal recycling facility**

Chlorine gas was released when a 1-ton, low-pressure tank was cut at metal
recycling facility. Most workers and customers followed the planned evacuation
route, exiting the facility through the main gate and meeting in an open field
that was downwind from the tank. The ACE team, working with the state and
local health department:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interviewed responders and facility owners, surveyed exposed persons, and the state partners abstracted hospital charts. A report of the investigation has been published.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Prepared a chemical release alert pdf icon[PDF - 185 KB]external icon to send to metal recycling facilities throughout the state. Key messages included: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Only accept containers that are cut open, dry, and without a valve or plug.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Treat closed containers as potential hazardous waste.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Develop and practice an evacuation plan. Train workers to stay upwind when evacuating for a chemical release.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The state health department conducted follow-up interviews and medical record review of the affected workers 6 months after the incident, determining that some workers had ongoing respiratory and psychological symptoms. As a result of their findings, they provided technical assistance to the treating providers.

* * *

##### **Ammonia release at a refrigeration facility**

A pipe ruptured on the roof of a refrigeration facility, releasing anhydrous
ammonia. A cloud of ammonia drifted over a canal behind the facility, exposing
personnel on ships docked at the refrigeration facility and at a large
facility across the canal where work was taking place outdoors. The ACE team,
in conjunction with the local health department and the state's CDC Career
Epidemiology Field Officer:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interviewed personnel at the refrigeration facility, responders, and employees of a large facility that was downwind; surveyed exposed persons at the downwind facility; and reviewed hospital charts. County partners surveyed hospitals where patients were treated.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Participated in a Hotwash (after action review) of the response to the incident and reported that there was a lack of notification of the people in the area of the release. The county later obtained a reverse 9-1-1 system to be able to call telephones belonging to residents and businesses in a defined geographic area and deliver recorded emergency notifications.

* * *

##### **Chlorine release at a poultry processing facility**

A worker accidently mixed sodium hypochlorite with an acid-containing
disinfectant, releasing approximately 40 lbs of chlorine gas within the
facility. Due to the air flow within the building, workers were exposed both
at their work stations and in a major hallway used as an evacuation route. The
ACE team, assisting the state and local health department:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Partnered with NIOSH on the investigation. The NIOSH team performed a Health Hazard Evaluation at the facility and surveyed workers to learn their health effects.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interviewed responders, surveyed staff at hospitals where patients were treated, and reviewed hospital charts of patients treated for chlorine exposure.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Determined that the existing emergency response protocols had an excessively high threshold for notification of the health department about chemical incidents. After the ACE investigation identified the issue, the notification protocol was modified to include health department notification of any incident involving a biological, chemical, radiological, or nuclear substance.

Published results of the investigation Challenges During a Chlorine Gas
Emergency Responseexternal icon

* * *

##### **Vinyl chloride release from a train derailment**

A tanker car punctured during a train derailment released approximately 24,
000 gallons of vinyl chloride on the edge of a small town. A shelter-in-place
order was established for surrounding areas, then was lifted and reestablished
repeatedly over four days, as vinyl chloride levels in the air fluctuated due
to weather conditions. The ACE team, in partnership with the state and local
health department:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Surveyed community members who were potentially exposed, surveyed staff from hospitals where patients were treated for vinyl chloride exposure, surveyed staff from a facility whose only access road was blocked by the derailed train, and performed hospital chart abstractions. State partners mailed a survey to all households in the community.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Partnered with a NIOSH team which interviewed representatives from responder groups and created a written survey for responders. A report of the NOISH investigation has been published.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Answered responders' questions during their meetings and collected information needed to address community concerns.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Reports from investigations of the incident are available at: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Paulsboro Fact Sheet on Health Survey Findings/Air Quality Impacts Following Vinyl Chloride Gas Release: September 2014 pdf icon[PDF - 33 KB]external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Paulsboro Health Consultation Survey of Residents Following Vinyl Chloride Gas Release: September 2014 pdf icon[PDF - 2 MB]external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Paulsboro Air Quality Health Consultation Following Vinyl Chloride Gas Release: September 2014 pdf icon[PDF - 2 MB]external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Q & A on Health Effects of Vinyl Chloride: December 2012 pdf icon[PDF - 307 KB]external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Q & A on Community and First Responder Health Surveys: December 2012 pdf icon[PDF - 304 KB]external icon

Published results of the investigation: Assessment of emergency responders
after a vinyl chloride release from a train derailment New Jersey 2012

Exposures and symptoms among workers after an offsite train derailment and
vinyl chloride releaseexternal icon

Medical Response to a Vinyl Chloride Release From a Train Derailment New
Jersey 2012external icon

* * *

##### **4-Methylcyclohexanemethanol and propylene glycol phenyl ether
contamination of a public water supply**

A tank containing chemicals used in coal processing leaked into a river just
upstream from the intake of the municipal water supply for approximately
300,000 people. A "Do not use" water order was issued for a nine-county area.
The ACE team, working with the state health department:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Performed hospital chart abstractions for patients treated for exposure to the contaminated water. Surveyed area hospitals to learn of their experiences with the "Do Not Use" water order. A review of disaster epidemiology capacity within the inviting agency was also performed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Used results from the hospital chart reviews for local outreach and education efforts in an effort to alleviate the public's concerns about spill-related health effects. Findings of the hospital survey were used to provide information to hospitals planning for emergencies where their water supply is compromised. The disaster epidemiology capacity report was used to aid in planning for health department responses to future disasters.

Published results of the investigation : Hospital Impact After a Chemical
Spill That Compromised the Potable Water Supply: West Virginia, January
2014external icon.

Acute Health Effects After the Elk River Chemical Spill, West Virginia,
January 2014 external icon

* * *

##### **Methyl bromide exposure at a condominium resort**

Methyl bromide, an outdoor pesticide, was inappropriately used as a fumigant
at a condominium resort in the U.S. Virgin Islands. A family of four were
exposed and developed life threatening illness. Thirty seven others were
potentially exposed. The ACE team, in partnership with the local health
department:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Worked with the EPA and condominium management to identify additional persons who were potentially exposed to methyl bromide;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Interviewed exposed persons using a standardized questionnaire about possible exposure related health effects;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Published results of the investigation: Severe Illness from Methyl Bromide Exposure at a Condominium Resort -- U.S. Virgin Islands, March 2015.

* * *

##### **Flint rash investigation**

On April 25, 2014, the City of Flint, Michigan switched its drinking water
source from Lake Huron to the Flint River and on October 16, 2015 they
switched it back to Lake Huron. During this time, people were presenting to
their health care providers with rashes or worsening rashes. The ACE team
assisted the local health department to

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Design a survey specifically for this study which was administered to Flint residents who reported rashes between late January and March 2016. Investigators were able to interview 390 people.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Refer people to four dermatologists from the Flint area who volunteered to give investigation participants free dermatology evaluations. They examined 122 people.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Partner with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) between January and May 2016 to conduct water-quality tests. Water samples were taken from 170 homes in Flint where rashes were reported.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Review historic water-quality data that the Flint water treatment plant produced when the Flint River was the city's source for municipal water.

A report from the investigation and fact sheet are available at  
https://www.phe.gov/emergency/events/Flint/Documents/rash-report.pdf pdf
icon[PDF - 1.5 MB]external icon

https://www.phe.gov/emergency/events/Flint/Documents/rash-study-factsheet.pdf
pdf icon[PDF - 677 KB]external icon

Assessment of Chemical Exposures Training

The Assessment of Chemical Exposures (ACE) training introduces how to perform
an epidemiologic assessment after a chemical incident. It also describes the
ACE Toolkit, which contains surveys, consent forms, databases, and training
materials that are useful in responding to or preparing for a chemical
release.

Available at:
http://cdc.train.org/DesktopModules/eLearning/CourseDetails/CourseDetailsForm.aspx?courseId=1060828external
icon

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: March 19, 2020

Content source: Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry

home National Toxic Substance Incidents Program

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Incident Investigations â ACEplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * ACE ToolKit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * ACE Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * ACE Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * NTSIP Reports & Data
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Publications

Quick Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * National Toxic Substance Incidents Program Factsheet Cdc-pdf PDF [PDF - 402 KB]

**CONTACT ATSDR**

Contact Information

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**ATSDR INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * About CDC / ATSDR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH ASTDR**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

