https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/research/epi/current.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/research/epi/current.htm    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: epilepsy epidemiology research, epilepsy health outcomes research, epilepsy epidemiologic research, epilepsy mortality research    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Currently Funded Epidemiologic Research Projects

Minus

Related Pages

![Doctor Examining Brain Images, Only Pen in
Shown](/epilepsy/images/research/brain-images-1185px.jpg)

The CDC Epilepsy Program supports studies that examine the epidemiology of
epilepsy. Learn more about currently funded work below.

Studying Reasons for Referral Delays

 **Case Western Reserve University and Dartmouth College**

Many people with epilepsy, especially people with uncontrolled seizures, do
not see a neurologist or epilepsy specialist for many years after their
epilepsy diagnosis. As a result, these people may not get the right diagnosis
or treatment. This delay in getting the right diagnosis and treatment can
result in continued seizures, limitations in daily activities such as working
or going to school, disability, and early death. It is unclear why patients
with seizures are not referred to neurologists or epilepsy specialists sooner.

Case Western Reserve University will partner with Dartmouth College to
determine when, how fast, and why people with epilepsy are referred for
neurological specialty care.

The two teams will work together and use the same study methods to understand
care patterns better. Findings from this study can lead to better and timelier
diagnosis and treatment of epilepsy.

_Case Western Reserve University_

The team at Case Western Reserve University will use Medicaid claims data from
17 states to examine:

                      * Clinical variables (e.g., new prescriptions, changes in diagnosis, comorbidity).
                      * Sociodemographic variables (e.g., age, race, insurance).

_Dartmouth College_

The Dartmouth team will use their large electronic health record system from
the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Epilepsy Center to examine:

                      * The same clinical and sociodemographic variables as Case Western Reserve University.
                      * The findings from the Medicaid claims data examined by Case Western Reserve University and confirm them.
                      * Additional relationships between clinical variables not typically available in claims data, but available in electronic health records.

Studying Rare Epilepsies in New York City: Using Text Processing of Clinical
Notes in Electronic Health Records to Improve Surveillance

 **Weill Medical College of Cornell University**

The goal of this study is to apply text processing (a method to scan for
words) in electronic health records from several medical centers in New York
City to improve surveillance and epidemiology of rare epilepsies. Rare forms
of epilepsy usually involve very difficult to control seizures in children.

Researchers will describe the incidence, prevalence, comorbidities, mortality,
and quality of care for individuals with rare epilepsies. The study findings
will help centers identify rare epilepsies to support surveillance, research,
quality improvement, care management, and referral of patients with rare
epilepsies to advocacy organizations.

**Back to  CDC-Supported Epilepsy Research. **

Page last reviewed: January 25, 2019

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                      * About Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Seizure First Aid
                        * Fast Facts
                        * Types of Seizures
                        * FAQs
                        * SUDEPplus icon
                          * SUDEP Information for Parents
                      * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                        * Find Support
                        * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                          * Parentâs Guide
                          * Facilitatorâs Guide
                          * Resource Guide
                        * Clinical Trials 
                      * Preventing Epilepsy
                      * Data and Statistics
                      * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                        * MEW Network
                        * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                      * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                      * Publicationsplus icon
                        * Reports
                        * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                          * Scientific Articles by Year
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Parents
                        * Health Care Providers
                        * Training for Professionals
                        * Schools
                        * Communities
                      * Communications Centerplus icon
                        * Whatâs New
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                        * Featuresplus icon
                          * Spotlight on Seizures
                          * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                          * Epilepsy Self-Management
                          * Epilepsy in Children
                          * Get Seizure Smart!
                          * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                          * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                          * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                        * Podcasts
                        * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

