https://www.cdc.gov/std/hpv/stdfact-hpv-and-men.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/hpv/stdfact-hpv-and-men.htm    
                Description: HPV and Men - STD information from CDC    
                Keywords: HPV,  Human Papillomavirus,  men,  vaccine,  Genital HPV Infection,  Genital Human Papillomavirus Infection,  Cervical Cancer,  Warts,  Facts,  Treatment,  Statistics,  STD,  CDC, HPV Infection (Human Papillomavirus)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

# HPV and Men - Fact Sheet

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

![men](/std/hpv/images/hpvAndMenFS-4.jpg)

#### Nearly all sexually active people will get human papillomavirus (HPV) at
some time in their life if they don't get the HPV vaccine. Although most HPV
infections go away on their own without causing problems, HPV can cause
genital warts, or cancer. Getting vaccinated against HPV can help prevent
these health problems.

Print Versionpdf icon

### What is HPV?

HPV is a very common virus that can be spread from one person to another
person through anal, vaginal, or oral sex, or through other close skin-to-skin
touching during sexual activity. 79 million Americans, most in their late
teens and early 20s, are infected with HPV. Nearly all sexually active people
who do not get the HPV vaccine get infected with HPV at some point in their
lives. It is important to understand that getting HPV is not the same thing as
getting HIV or HSV (herpes).

### How do men get HPV?

You can get HPV by having sex with someone who is infected with HPV. This
disease is spread easily during anal or vaginal sex, and it can also be spread
through oral sex or other close skin-to-skin touching during sex. HPV can be
spread even when an infected person has no visible signs or symptoms.

### Will HPV cause health problems for me?

Most HPV infections go away on their own and don't cause any health problems.
However, if an infection does not go away, it is possible to develop HPV
symptoms months or years after getting infected. This makes it hard to know
exactly when you became infected. Lasting HPV infection can cause genital
warts or certain kinds of cancer. It is not known why some people develop
health problems from HPV and others do not.

### What are the symptoms of HPV?

Most men who get HPV never develop symptoms and the infection usually goes
away completely by itself. However, if HPV does not go away, it can cause
genital warts or certain kinds of cancer.

See your healthcare provider if you have questions about anything new or
unusual such as warts, or unusual growths, lumps, or sores on your penis,
scrotum, anus, mouth, or throat.

### What are the symptoms of genital warts?

Genital warts usually appear as a small bump or group of bumps in the genital
area around the penis or the anus. These warts might be small or large, raised
or flat, or shaped like a cauliflower. The warts may go away, or stay the
same, or grow in size or number. Usually, a healthcare provider can diagnose
genital warts simply by looking at them. Genital warts can come back, even
after treatment. _The types of HPV that cause warts do not cause cancer._

### Can HPV cause cancer?

Yes. HPV itself isn't cancer but it can cause changes in the body that lead to
cancer. HPV infections usually go away by themselves but , when they don't,
they can cause certain kinds of cancer to develop. These include cervical
cancer in women, penile cancer in men, and anal cancer in both women and men.
HPV can also cause cancer in the back of the throat, including the base of the
tongue and tonsils (called oropharyngeal cancer). All of these cancers are
caused by HPV infections that did not go away. Cancer develops very slowly and
may not be diagnosed until years, or even decades, after a person first gets
infected with HPV. Currently, there is no way to know who will have only a
temporary HPV infection, and who will develop cancer after getting HPV.

### How common are HPV-related cancers in men?

Although HPV is the most common sexually transmitted infection, HPV-related
cancers are not common in men.

Certain men are more likely to develop HPV-related cancers:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Men with weak immune systems (including those with HIV) who get infected with HPV are more likely to develop HPV-related health problems.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Men who receive anal sex are more likely to get anal HPV and develop anal cancer.

### Can I get tested for HPV?

No, there is currently no approved test for HPV in men.

Routine testing (also called 'screening') to check for HPV or HPV-related
disease before there are signs or symptom, is not recommended by the CDC for
anal, penile, or throat cancers in men in the United States. However, some
healthcare providers do offer anal Pap tests to men who may be at increased
risk for anal cancer, including men with HIV or men who receive anal sex. If
you have symptoms and are concerned about cancer, please see a healthcare
provider.

### Can I get treated for HPV or health problems caused by HPV?

There is no specific treatment for HPV, but there are treatments for health
problems caused by HPV. Genital warts can be treated by your healthcare
provider, or with prescription medication. HPV-related cancers are more
treatable when diagnosed and treated promptly. For more information, visit
www.cancer.orgexternal icon.

### How can I lower my chance of getting HPV?

There are two steps you can take to lower your chances of getting HPV and HPV-
related diseases:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Get vaccinated._ The HPV vaccine is safe and effective. It can protect men against warts and certain cancers caused by HPV. Ideally, you should get vaccinated before ever having sex (see below for the recommended age groups). CDC recommends HPV vaccination at age 11 or 12 years (or can start at age 9 years) and for everyone through age 26 years, if not vaccinated already. For more information on the recommendations, please see: https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/vpd/hpv/public/index.html
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * _Use_ _condoms_ _the correct way every time you have sex._ This can lower your chances of getting all STIs, including HPV. However, HPV can infect areas that are not covered by a condom, so condoms may not give full protection against getting HPV.

### Can I get the HPV vaccine?

In the United States, HPV vaccination is recommended for:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Preteens at age 11 or 12 years (or can start at age 9 years)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Everyone through age 26 years, if not vaccinated already.

Vaccination is not recommended for everyone older than age 26 years. However,
some men age 27 through 45 years who are not already vaccinated may decide to
get the HPV vaccine after speaking with their healthcare provider about their
risk for new HPV infections and the possible benefits of vaccination. HPV
vaccination in this age range provides less benefit. Most sexually active
adults have already been exposed to HPV, although not necessarily all of the
HPV types targeted by vaccination.

At any age, having a new sex partner is a risk factor for getting a new HPV
infection. People who are already in a long-term, mutually monogamous
relationship are not likely to get a new HPV infection.

### What does having HPV mean for me or my sex partner's health?

See a healthcare provider if you have questions about anything new or unusual
(such as warts, growths, lumps, or sores) on your own or your partner's penis,
scrotum, anus, mouth or throat. Even if you are healthy, you and your sex
partner(s) may also want to get checked by a healthcare provider for other
STIs.

If you or your partner have genital warts, you should avoid having sex until
the warts are gone or removed. However, it is not known how long a person is
able to spread HPV after warts are gone.

### What does HPV mean for my relationship?

HPV infections are usually temporary. A person may have had HPV for many years
before it causes health problems. If you or your partner are diagnosed with an
HPV-related disease, there is no way to know how long you have had HPV,
whether your partner gave you HPV, or whether you gave HPV to your partner.
HPV is not necessarily a sign that one of you is having sex outside of your
relationship. It is important that sex partners discuss their sexual health
and risk for all STIs, with each other.

![More STD Fact Sheets](/std/images/promos/ALLfs180.png)

### Where can I get more information?

STD information

HPV Information

Gay and Bisexual Men's Health

STD information and referrals to STD Clinics  
CDC-INFO  
1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636)  
TTY: 1-888-232-6348  
In English, en Español

CDC National Prevention Information Network (NPIN)  
P.O. Box 6003  
Rockville, MD 20849-6003  
E-mail: npin-info@cdc.gov

American Sexual Health Association (ASHA)external icon  
P. O. Box 13827  
Research Triangle Park, NC 27709-3827  
919-361-8488  
E-mail: info@ashasexualhealth.org



Page last reviewed: December 28, 2016

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Human Papillomavirus (HPV)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facts & Brochures expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * HPV Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * HPV & Men Fact Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Vaccine Information for Young Women
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Statistics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treatment and Care
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Archive

STDs Home Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Chlamydia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Gonorrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Genital Herpes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Hepatitis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HIV/AIDS & STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs & Infertility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * STDs & Pregnancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syphilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Trichomoniasis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other STDs

#### See Also

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC's HPV Topic Site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * HPV Vaccination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cancer Prevention and Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Cervical Cancer Screening
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC's National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program  

Follow STD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[9 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[Yesterday at 9:38 AM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 9:38 AM
  *[April 5 at 11:36 AM]: Sunday, April 5, 2020 at 11:36 AM
  *[April 3 at 1:33 PM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 1:33 PM
  *[March 26 at 12:39 PM]: Thursday, March 26, 2020 at 12:39 PM
  *[ 11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[ February 21]: Friday, February 21, 2020 at 11:22 AM
  *[April 1]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:29 PM
  *[June 16, 2016]: Thursday, June 16, 2016 at 1:00 PM
  *[ March 19]: Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 6:08 AM
  *[ March 17]: Tuesday, March 17, 2020 at 2:14 PM
  *[ June 26, 2016]: Sunday, June 26, 2016 at 5:35 PM
  *[11 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 10:08 AM
  *[April 3 at 10:52 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 10:52 AM
  *[ March 1, 2019]: Friday, March 1, 2019 at 5:19 AM
  *[February 21, 2019]: Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 6:58 AM
  *[PDF]: Portable Document Format
  *[GTSS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[CDC]: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  *[GATS]: Global Tobacco Surveillance System
  *[PDF-2.96 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.25 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-6.14 MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[PDF-2.65MB]]: Portable Document Format
  *[NTCP]: National Tobacco Control Program
  *[OSH]: Office on Smoking and Health
  *[5 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[8 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 11:16 AM
  *[Yesterday at 2:45 PM]: Monday, April 6, 2020 at 2:45 PM
  *[April 3 at 5:08 AM]: Friday, April 3, 2020 at 5:08 AM
  *[April 1 at 8:09 AM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 8:09 AM
  *[February 2, 2017]: Thursday, February 2, 2017 at 11:10 AM
  *[ January 26, 2015]: Monday, January 26, 2015 at 5:31 PM
  *[October 31, 2015]: Saturday, October 31, 2015 at 8:00 PM
  *[March 24]: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 11:07 AM
  *[February 15]: Saturday, February 15, 2020 at 3:57 PM
  *[ May 1, 2018]: Tuesday, May 1, 2018 at 7:29 AM
  *[6 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM
  *[ 12 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 8:30 AM
  *[14 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7:00 AM
  *[]: You have unseen notifications

