https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/communications/features/seizures.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/communications/features/seizures.htm    
                Description: Seizures may look different than expected. Learn how to spot the signs of seizures and how to help.     
                Keywords: Epilepsy, Seizures, First Aid, Seizure Disorder    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Spotlight on Seizures

Minus

Related Pages

![Mother hugging her daughter from
behind](/epilepsy/images/communications/Woman-hugging-daughter-from-
behind.jpg)

**Seizures may not look the way you 'd expect. Would you know how to spot a
seizure? Learn how.**

A seizure is a short change in normal brain activity that can cause changes in
awareness, behavior, or body movement. Seizures are the main sign of epilepsy,
a brain disorder that causes repeated seizures. Seizures can also be caused by
other medical problems such as a high fever, low blood sugar, or drug or
alcohol withdrawal. About 1 in 10 people may have a seizure during their
lifetime,1 which means seizures are common. It's important to be able to
recognize when a seizure is happening and know how to help.

### Recognizing Seizures

Seizures may look different from what you'd expect. In the movies and on TV, a
person supposedly having a seizure is often shown falling to the ground,
shaking, and becoming unaware of what's going on around them. That's one kind
of seizure, but it's not the most common. More often, a person having a
seizure may seem confused, stare into space, wander, make unusual movements,
or be unable to answer questions or talk. Some people with seizures have
sensations such as a strange taste or smell or a "funny feeling" in their
stomach.

Sometimes it can be hard to tell if someone is having a seizure. If you are
concerned that you or a loved one could have had a seizure, talk to a health
care provider.

![Sign that say 'We Can Help!'](/epilepsy/images/communications/We-Can-Help-
Sign.jpg)

CDC supports the Epilepsy Foundation to train school nurses and staff, child
care workers, law enforcement, emergency responders, and older adult
caregivers how to recognize seizures and provide first aid. Learn more.

### New Terminology for Seizures

There are many different types of seizures, and people with epilepsy may have
more than one type. You may have heard words such as "grand mal," "petit mal,"
or "partial" to describe different types of seizures. Those terms are now
outdated. Doctors have changed the way they label seizures to provide better
diagnoses and treatment. Seizures are now named by where they start in the
brain, how they change awareness, and how they affect the body.

There are two main types of seizures:

                      * **Generalized seizures** affect both sides of the brain.
                      * **Focal seizures** start on one side of the brain.2

Both types of seizures can affect a person's awareness.

Both generalized and focal seizures can cause a person to have physical
movements, which doctors call "motor symptoms." These symptoms may include
muscle stiffening, relaxing, or twitching, or movements such as lip smacking.
However, seizures can also cause nonmotor symptoms, such as changes in
thinking or sensation (without any visible effect on the body).

### How to Help

Not all seizures are emergencies, and most will stop on their own within a few
minutes. The first response is to remain calm and provide care and comfort.
Time the seizure, and check for a medical identification bracelet or other
emergency information. Learn more about seizure first aid and what you can do
to help during a seizure.

### More Information

                      * CDC Epilepsy Program
                      * Epilepsy Foundation's Types of Seizuresexternal icon

### References

1\. Hauser WA, Annegers JF, Rocca WF. Descriptive epidemiology of epilepsy:
contributions of population-based studies from Rochester, Minnesota. _Mayo
Clinic Proc_ 1996;71(6):576-586.  
2\. Fisher RS, Cross JH, French JA, Higurashi N, Hirsch E, Jansen FE, et al.
Operational classification of seizure types by the International League
Against Epilepsy: Position paper of the ILAE Commission for Classification and
Terminology. _Epilepsia_ 2017;58:522-530.

Page last reviewed: March 16, 2020

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                      * About Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Seizure First Aid
                        * Fast Facts
                        * Types of Seizures
                        * FAQs
                        * SUDEPplus icon
                          * SUDEP Information for Parents
                      * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                        * Find Support
                        * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                          * Parentâs Guide
                          * Facilitatorâs Guide
                          * Resource Guide
                        * Clinical Trials 
                      * Preventing Epilepsy
                      * Data and Statistics
                      * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                        * MEW Network
                        * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                      * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                      * Publicationsplus icon
                        * Reports
                        * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                          * Scientific Articles by Year
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Parents
                        * Health Care Providers
                        * Training for Professionals
                        * Schools
                        * Communities
                      * Communications Centerplus icon
                        * Whatâs New
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                        * Featuresplus icon
                          * Spotlight on Seizures
                          * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                          * Epilepsy Self-Management
                          * Epilepsy in Children
                          * Get Seizure Smart!
                          * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                          * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                          * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                        * Podcasts
                        * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

