https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/communications/infographics/index.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/communications/infographics/index.htm    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Infographics

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                      * Epilepsy Is a Public Health Problem
                      * When Seizures Don't Stop
                      * Paying for Health Care is Hard for People with Epilepsy
                      * Epilepsy Can Make it Hard to Have a Job
                      * Epilepsy and Good Mental Health
                      * Epilepsy and Poor Mental Health
                      * Seizures and Poverty

Epilepsy Is a Public Health Problem

![see text
description](/epilepsy/communications/infographics/images/large/cdc-epilepsy-
public-health-problem-medium.jpg)

                      * Full Sized Infographic
                      * Text Version
                      * Definitions and Sources

When Seizures Don't Stop

![When Seizures Don’t Stop. \[Illustration of a head and brain\]. Epilepsy is
common. 3 million U.S. adults have active epilepsy. 56% of adults with
epilepsy still have seizures. \[Illustration of doctor and a nurse standing in
a medical office\]. A specialist can help stop seizures. 1 out of 3 adults
with epilepsy didn’t see a specialist in the past year. Adults with
uncontrolled seizures should: see an epilepsy specialist; take medical as
prescribed; learn to manage epilepsy; call the Epilepsy Foundation helpline at
1-800-332-1000.](/epilepsy/communications/infographics/images/large/Epilepsy-
Visual-Abstract-600.jpg)

Full Sized Infographic and Text Version

Paying for Health Care is Hard for People with Epilepsy

![Paying for health care is hard for people with epilepsy. Adults with
epilepsy have more difficulty paying for medicine. 21% of adults with epilepsy
can’t pay for medicines, compared to 9% of adults without epilepsy who could
not pay for their medicine. Adults with epilepsy have more difficulty paying
for eyeglasses. 18% of adults with epilepsy can’t pay for eye glasses,
compared to 8% of adults without epilepsy. Adults with epilepsy have more
difficulty paying for dental care. 27% of adults with epilepsy can’t pay for
dental care, compared to 14% of adults without epilepsy without dental
care.](/epilepsy/communications/infographics/images/large/epilepsy-healthcare-
challenges504-small.jpg)

Full Sized Infographic and Text Version

Epilepsy Can Make it Hard to Have a Job

![epilepsy can make it hard to have a job. 32% of adults with epilepsy can't
work versus 7% of adults without epilepsy.  29% of adults with epilepsy can't
use a car or public transit to get places versus 8% of adults without
epilepsy.](/epilepsy/communications/infographics/images/large/epilepsy-
employment-challenges504-small.jpg)

Full Sized Infographic and Text Version

Epilepsy and Good Mental Health

![People without a history of epilepsy report good or better mental health
more frequently than people with a history of epilepsy. 54% of people with a
history of epilepsy report good or better mental health. 79% of people without
a history of epilepsy report good or better mental health. The Healthy People
2020 target is 80% of people reporting good or better mental
health.](/epilepsy/communications/infographics/images/large/epilepsy-mental-
health504-small.jpg)

Full Sized Infographic and Text Version

Epilepsy and Poor Mental Health

![Illustration of a head with 2 spinning wheels inside of it. Adults with
epilepsy are more likely to have felt nervous, sad, or hopeless in the past 30
days. 13% of adults with epilepsy felt nervous, sad, or hopeless in the past
30 days, compared to 3% of adults without
epilepsy.](/epilepsy/communications/infographics/images/large/epilepsy-
nervous-hopeless504-small.jpg)

Full Sized Infographic and Text Version

Seizures and Poverty

![336,000 kids have at least one seizure annually. 4 in 10 live in homes at or
close to the poverty level. 3 in 10 live in homes without enough
food.](/epilepsy/communications/infographics/images/large/epilepsy-poverty-
small.jpg)

Full Sized Infographic and Text Version

**Return to Communications Center.**

Page last reviewed: February 20, 2019

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                      * About Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Seizure First Aid
                        * Fast Facts
                        * Types of Seizures
                        * FAQs
                        * SUDEPplus icon
                          * SUDEP Information for Parents
                      * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                        * Find Support
                        * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                          * Parentâs Guide
                          * Facilitatorâs Guide
                          * Resource Guide
                        * Clinical Trials 
                      * Preventing Epilepsy
                      * Data and Statistics
                      * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                        * MEW Network
                        * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                      * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                      * Publicationsplus icon
                        * Reports
                        * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                          * Scientific Articles by Year
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Parents
                        * Health Care Providers
                        * Training for Professionals
                        * Schools
                        * Communities
                      * Communications Centerplus icon
                        * Whatâs New
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                        * Featuresplus icon
                          * Spotlight on Seizures
                          * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                          * Epilepsy Self-Management
                          * Epilepsy in Children
                          * Get Seizure Smart!
                          * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                          * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                          * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                        * Podcasts
                        * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

