https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/communications/features/olderadults.htmLink: https://www.cdc.gov/epilepsy/communications/features/olderadults.htm    
                Description: Did you know that epilepsy is more likely to develop in older adults? Seizures can be easy to miss. Learn how to recognize the signs and how you can help.    
                Keywords: Epilepsy,  seizures,  aging,  older adults,  stroke,  caregiving    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Epilepsy

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

# Epilepsy and Seizures in Older Adults

Minus

Related Pages

![An older Caucasian woman being hugged by another woman in a kitchen. The
older Caucasian woman’s face is shown. Her eyes are closed and she has a calm
look on her face. ](/epilepsy/images/communications/features/Older-Caucasian-
woman-being-Comforted-by-her-Daughter-in-Kitchen-medium_cropped.jpg)

**Did you know that epilepsy is more likely to develop in older adults?
Seizures can be easy to miss. Learn how to recognize the signs and how you can
help.**

Epilepsy is brain disorder that causes repeated seizures. About 3 million US
adults aged 18 years or older have active epilepsy.1 Nearly 1 million of those
adults are aged 55 or older.2 As our population ages, there will be even more
older people with epilepsy in the coming years.

Epilepsy is more likely to develop in older adults because some risk factors
for epilepsy are more common in older adults3:

                      * Strokes.
                      * Head injuries due to falls.
                      * Diseases that affect brain function (such as Alzheimer's disease).
                      * Brain tumorsexternal icon.

About half of older adults who are told they have epilepsy do not know the
cause.4

### How Do I Know If It's Epilepsy?

![An older African American woman is outdoors staring into nature with a
contemplative look on her
face.](/epilepsy/images/communications/features/Older-AA-Woman-Staring-and-
Thinking.jpg)

Epilepsy can affect people at any age, but it's more likely to develop in
older adults.

It isn't always easy to tell when you or someone you care for develops
epilepsy later in life. That's because seizures may be hard to recognize in
older adults and may go unnoticed. For example, memory problems, confusion,
falls, dizziness, or sensory changes like numbness are often blamed on
"getting older."4,5 However, these can actually be signs of seizures.4,5

There are many different signs of seizures because there are many types of
seizures. In the movies and on TV, a person is often shown falling to the
ground, shaking, and becoming unaware of what's going on around them. That's
one kind of seizure, but it's not the most common. More often, a person having
a seizure may:

                      * Seem confused.
                      * Stare into space.
                      * Wander.
                      * Make unusual movements.
                      * Can't answer questions or talk.

When these signs occur more than once and often in the same pattern, they
could be signs of seizures.

If an older adult is showing these signs, it is important for them to talk to
a health care provider. Most adults with epilepsy have good seizure control
with medicines.3 Epilepsy specialists can help older adults find the right
treatment. Find an epilepsy specialist near you at the Epilepsy Foundation
websiteexternal icon.

![A Caucasian woman has a single arm around an older Caucasian woman who is
smiling. ](/epilepsy/images/communications/features/Older-Caucasian-woman-
Being-Comforted-by-Daughter-small.jpg)

Caregivers should learn how to recognize seizures in older adults.

### How Is Epilepsy Challenging for Older Adults?

Adults who develop epilepsy later in life may have a hard time managing the
disorder. Eight in 10 adults aged 65 or older have more than one chronic
health condition.6 It can be hard to balance epilepsy treatment when taking
medicines for other health problems. Many epilepsy medicines also have side
effects such as bone loss or dizziness, which can make someone more likely to
fall and become injured.4  
Epilepsy can also affect a person's daily life if seizures limit their ability
to drive or if they live alone. After a lifetime of being independent, losing
the ability to drive or take care of themselves can be especially hard for
older adults. Read more about this in an Epilepsy Foundation article about
living independentlyexternal icon.

### How Can You Help?

Seizure first aid is easy to give and involves keeping the person safe until
the seizure stops on its own and knowing when to call 911 for emergency help.

If you work at an adult day care center, senior center, long-term care
facility, nursing home, in home health care, or another senior-serving
organization, there is special training available. Seniors & Seizuresexternal
icon is a free online or in-person course offered by the Epilepsy Foundation.
You can get free continuing education credits for participating.

More Information

                      * Find Support
                      * Facts about Epilepsy
                      * Managing Epilepsy

References

                      1. Zack MM, Kobau R. National and state estimates of the numbers of adults and children with active epilepsy -- United States, 2015. MMWR. 2017;66:821-825\. DOI: 10.15585/mmwr.mm6631a1. html.
                      2. Sapkota S, Kobau R, Pastula D, Zack M. Close to one million U.S. adults aged 55 years or older have active epilepsy -- National Health Interview Survey 2010, 2013, and 2015. Epilepsy Behav. 2018;87:233-234\. DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2018.06.030. htmlexternal icon.
                      3. Brodie MJ, Elder AT, Kwan. Epilepsy in later life. Lancet Neurology. 2009;8(11):1019-1030. DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(09)70240-6. htmlexternal icon.
                      4. Waterhouse E, Towne A. Seizures in the elderly: Nuances in presentation and treatment. Cleve Clin J Med. 2005;72(3):S26-S37. DOI: 10.3949/ccjm.72.Suppl_3.S26. htmlexternal icon.
                      5. Pugh MJ, Knoefel JE, Mortensen EM, Amuan ME, Berlowitz DR, Van Cott AC. New-onset epilepsy risk factors in older veterans. J Am Geriat Soc. 2009;57(2):237-42. DOI:10.1111/j.1532-5415.2008.02124.x. htmlexternal icon.
                      6. Gerteis J, Izrael D, Deitz D, LeRoy L, Ricciardi R, Miller T, Basu J. Multiple Chronic Conditions Chartbook. AHRQ Publications No, Q14-0038. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; 2014. Accessed April 1, 2019. PDF pdf icon[10.6MB]external icon.

#### **Do I Call 911?**

Seizures do not usually require emergency medical attention. Only call 911 if
one or more of these are true:

                      * The person has never had a seizure before.
                      * The person has difficulty breathing or waking after the seizure.
                      * The seizure lasts longer than 5 minutes.
                      * The person has another seizure soon after the first one.
                      * The person is hurt during the seizure.
                      * The seizure happens in water.
                      * The person has a health condition like diabetes, heart disease, or is pregnant.

Page last reviewed: April 23, 2019

Content source: National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health
Promotion , Division of Population Health

home Epilepsy

                      * About Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Seizure First Aid
                        * Fast Facts
                        * Types of Seizures
                        * FAQs
                        * SUDEPplus icon
                          * SUDEP Information for Parents
                      * Managing Epilepsyplus icon
                        * Managing Epilepsy Well Checklist
                        * Find Support
                        * Parent Toolkitplus icon
                          * Parentâs Guide
                          * Facilitatorâs Guide
                          * Resource Guide
                        * Clinical Trials 
                      * Preventing Epilepsy
                      * Data and Statistics
                      * Research and Surveillanceplus icon
                        * MEW Network
                        * Epidemiologic Research Projects 
                      * CDC Addresses Epilepsy
                      * Publicationsplus icon
                        * Reports
                        * Scientific Articlesplus icon
                          * Scientific Articles by Year
                      * Links to Other Websites
                      * Info for Specific Groupsplus icon
                        * Parents
                        * Health Care Providers
                        * Training for Professionals
                        * Schools
                        * Communities
                      * Communications Centerplus icon
                        * Whatâs New
                        * Infographicsplus icon
                          * Text Descriptions for Infographics
                        * Featuresplus icon
                          * Spotlight on Seizures
                          * Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
                          * Epilepsy Self-Management
                          * Epilepsy in Children
                          * Get Seizure Smart!
                          * Epilepsy & Seizures in Older Adults
                          * Strokes May Lead to Epilepsy
                          * Epilepsy Can Follow Traumatic Brain Injury
                        * Podcasts
                        * Get Email Updates

Social_govd govD Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about Epilepsy, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                      * About CDC
                      * Jobs
                      * Funding
                      * Policies
                      * File Viewers & Players

                      * Privacy
                      * FOIA
                      * No Fear Act
                      * OIG
                      * Nondiscrimination
                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * Youtube
                      * Instagram
  

                      * Syndicate
                      * CDC TV
                      * RSS
                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

