https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/after-travelLink: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/after-travel    
                Description: After Travel Tips    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                      * Facebook
                      * Twitter
                      * LinkedIn
                      * Email
                      * Syndicate

### After Travel Tips

![doctor and patient](/travel/images/after-travel-doctor.jpg)

After travel, sometimes people come home with more than souvenirs.
Fortunately, most after-travel illnesses are mild, such as a head cold or an
upset stomach. However, other travel-related illnesses may be more serious,
and symptoms may not show up until long after you get home.



### Need to See a Doctor?

Seek medical attention if you are not feeling well after your trip, whether
you have diarrhea, skin problems, trouble breathing, or other issues.

Be sure to tell your doctor about your travel, including where you went and
what you did on your trip. This information will help your doctor consider
infections that are rare or not found in the United States. Some details to
include:

                      * Your vaccination history
                      * What you did on your trip (activities, excursions, missionary work, medical work)
                      * How long you were gone
                      * Where you stayed (hotel, private home, tent)
                      * What you ate and drank
                      * Whether you were bitten by bugs or bitten, scratched, or licked by animals
                      * Whether you swam in fresh water
                      * Whether you received health care abroad
                      * Any other possible exposures to infections like sexual encounters, tattoos, piercings, or injuries that broke the skin

You may wish to talk to an infectious disease doctor or travel medicine
specialist. If you need help finding a travel medicine specialist, find a
clinic here.

### What Else Should I Know?

**Malaria**

Malaria is a mosquito-borne disease caused by a parasite.  Malaria is serious
and may be deadly. After you have left an area with malaria, it is very
important that you continue taking your antimalarial drugs as prescribed:

                      * Weekly for 4 weeks if you are taking doxycycline, chloroquine, or mefloquine
                      * Daily for 7 days if you are taking atovaquone/proguanil or primaquine
                      * One weekly dose if you are taking tafenoquine

Malaria symptoms usually develop within 30 days, but they could appear up to a
year after exposure. **If you become ill with a fever or flu-like illness
either while traveling in a malaria-risk area or up to 1 year after you return
home, you should seek immediate medical attention and tell the clinician your
travel history.** Because malaria can be a medical emergency, your doctor must
rule out malaria if you have been in an area with malaria risk within the past
year. A fever could be from malaria even if you took antimalarial medicine,
because the medicine, while very effective, is not 100% effective.

### Take-Home Message

After travel, if you are not feeling well, seek medical attention, and tell
them where you traveled.





* * *

Page last reviewed: November 14, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                      * Destinations
                      * Find a Clinicexpand
                        * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                          * FAQ
                      * Travel Notices
                      * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                        * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                          * Clinical Updates
                          * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                          * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                          * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                          * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                        * Traveler Adviceexpand
                          * After Travel Tips
                          * Animal Safety
                          * Before You Travel Tips
                          * Blood Clots
                          * Bug Bites
                          * Business Travel
                          * Cold Climates
                          * Counterfeit Medicines
                          * Cruise Ship Travel
                          * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                          * During Travel Tips
                          * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                          * Food and Water
                          * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                            * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                          * High Altitudes
                          * Holiday Travel
                          * Hot Climates
                          * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                          * Insurance
                          * International Adoption
                          * Jet Lag
                          * Last-Minute Travel
                          * Long-Term Travel
                          * Lunar New Year
                          * Mass Gatherings
                          * Medical Tourism
                          * Mental Health
                          * Motion Sickness
                          * Natural Disasters
                          * Pack Smart
                          * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                            * Posters
                            * Prevent Bug Bites
                            * Recently in American Tropics?
                            * Going to American Tropics?
                            * Food and Water: What's Safer
                            * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                            * Food and Water: What to Know
                            * Road Safety
                            * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                            * MERS Health Advisory poster
                            * MERS Pictogram
                            * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                            * Website Guide
                            * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                            * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                            * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                            * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                            * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                          * Pregnant Travelers
                          * Road Safety
                          * Routine Vaccines
                          * Senior Citizens
                          * Sex Tourism
                          * Spring Break Travel
                          * STDs
                          * Study Abroad
                          * Summer Travel Abroad
                          * Sun Exposure
                          * Tick Bites
                          * Travel to the Extreme
                          * Travel Vaccines
                          * Traveler Survival Guide
                          * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                          * Traveling with Children
                          * Traveling with Your Pet
                          * Travelers' Diarrhea
                          * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                          * Travelers with Disability
                          * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                          * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                          * Water Disinfection
                          * Water Safety Abroad
                          * Mobile Apps
                          * RSS Feeds
                        * Travel Industry Resources
                        * Research and Surveillance Partners
                      * Disease Directoryexpand
                        * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                        * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                          * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                      * Yellow Bookexpand
                        * Contents
                          * Chapter 1
                            * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                            * Travel Epidemiology
                            *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                        * Tables
                        * Maps
                        * Figures
                        * Boxes
                        * Updates
                        * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                          * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                      * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                        * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                        * Adobe PDF file
                        * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                        * Microsoft Word file
                        * Microsoft Excel file
                        * Audio/Video file
                        * Apple Quicktime file
                        * RealPlayer file
                        * Text file
                        * Zip Archive file
                        * SAS file
                        * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                        * About CDC
                        * Jobs
                        * Funding
                        * Policies
                        * File Viewers & Players

                        * Privacy
                        * FOIA
                        * No Fear Act
                        * OIG
                        * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                        * Facebook
                        * Twitter
                        * Youtube
                        * Instagram
  

                        * Syndicate
                        * CDC TV
                        * RSS
                        * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                        * Email
                        * Recommend
                        * Tweet
                        * Post
                        * RSS

###### CDC Media

                        * Listen
                        * Watch
                        * eCards
                        * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                        * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                        * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                        * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                        * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

