https://www.cdc.gov/std/chlamydiaLink: https://www.cdc.gov/std/chlamydia    
                Description: Chlamydia - STD Information from CDC.  Facts, Statistics, Treatment, and Other Resources.    
                Keywords: Chlamydia, clamidia, Chlamydia trachomatis, C. trachomatis, CT, Facts, Treatment, Statistics, silent disease, PID, STD, STI CDC    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Chlamydia

Section Navigation

CDC Home

              * Facebook
              * Twitter
              * LinkedIn
              * Email
              * Syndicate

# Chlamydia

Minus

Related Pages

![chlamydia](/std/chlamydia/images/splash-chlamydia-2000px.png)

Most people who have chlamydia don't know it since the disease often has no
symptoms.

Fact Sheet

![Photo of a woman reading a fact
sheet.](/std/chlamydia/images/womanReadsFS.jpg)

Women under 25 and older women with risk factors need testing every year.

More

Statistics

![Illustration of people abstracted behind a bar
graph.](/std/chlamydia/images/barGraphPeople.jpg)

Chlamydia is the most commonly reported STD in the United States.

More

Treatment

![Photo of a clinician and her
patient.](/std/chlamydia/images/clinicianAndPatient.jpg)

Chlamydia is easily cured but can make it difficult to get pregnant if left
untreated.

More

Highlights

The State of STDs in the United States: This *customizable* infographic
highlights statistics for chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis, as well as the
populations most affected by these STDs, consequences when left untreated, and
ways to prevent them. (September 25, 2018)

EPT Success StoryCdc-pdf

Innovative STD Prevention Campaigns Success StoryCdc-pdf

De-Duplication Guidance for Gonorrhea and Chlamydia Laboratory ReportsCdc-pdf
- This document contains background and guidance on the timeframe that
jurisdictions should use to de-duplicate their gonorrhea and chlamydia
laboratory reports before reporting these cases to CDC. (June 17, 2016)

2015 STD Treatment Guidelines - Chlamydial Infections - Includes diagnosis,
treatment, prevention, and special considerations for chlamydial infections.
Includes updated screening recommendations. (June 4, 2015)

Prevalence of _Chlamydia trachomatis_ Genital Infection Among Persons Aged
14-39 Years -- United States, 2007-2012 - MMWR September 26, 2014

Recommendations for the Laboratory-Based Detection of _Chlamydia trachomatis_
and _Neisseria gonorrhoeae_ -- 2014 (March 14, 2014)



Page last reviewed: January 4, 2017

Content source: Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS,
Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention

home Chlamydia

              * Facts & Brochures expand
                * Basic Fact Sheet
                * Detailed Fact Sheet
              * Statistics expand
                * Screening Data, HEDIS
              * Laboratory Information
              * Treatment and Care
              * Other Resources expand
                * Chlamydia Messages
              * Archive

STDs Home Page

              * Bacterial Vaginosis (BV)
              * Chlamydia
              * Gonorrhea
              * Genital Herpes
              * Hepatitis
              * HIV/AIDS & STDs
              * Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
              * Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)
              * STDs & Infertility
              * STDs & Pregnancy
              * Syphilis
              * Trichomoniasis
              * Other STDs

#### See Also

              * Pregnancy
              * Reproductive Health

**Find an STD testing site near you.**

ZIP Code:  

Follow STD

              * Social_round_twitter twitter STD on Twitter
              * Social_round_facebook facebook STD on Facebook

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

              * About CDC
              * Jobs
              * Funding
              * Policies
              * File Viewers & Players

              * Privacy
              * FOIA
              * No Fear Act
              * OIG
              * Nondiscrimination
              * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

              * Facebook
              * Twitter
              * Youtube
              * Instagram
  

              * Syndicate
              * CDC TV
              * RSS
              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

              * Facebook
              * Twitter
              * LinkedIn
              * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

