https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/cholera-vaccine-travelersLink: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/cholera-vaccine-travelers    
                Description: Continuing Education: Cholera Vaccine for Travelers    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                              * Facebook
                                                              * Twitter
                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                              * Email
                                                              * Syndicate

### Cholera Vaccine for Travelers

On This Page

                                                              * Program Description
                                                              * Learning Objectives
                                                              * Accreditation Statements
                                                              * Instructions for Obtaining Continuing Education (CE)

## WB4279

## Program Description

This module is designed to increase knowledge of cholera as an infectious
agent, as well as its transmission and clinical presentation. The content
draws on the latest ACIP and CDC recommendations and aims to improve provider
competency around cholera prevention, diagnosis and treatment.

## Objectives

At the conclusion of the session, the participant will be able to:

                                                              1. Describe cholera as an infectious agent.
                                                              2. Identify the transmission route of cholera.
                                                              3. Explain the clinical presentation of cholera.
                                                              4. Describe diagnosis and treatment options for cholera.
                                                              5. List recommendations for prevention strategies for cholera.
                                                              6. Discuss cholera vaccine recommendations and CDC resources for cholera prevention.
                                                              7. Identify strategies for cholera prevention in cooperation with patients, communities, at-risk populations, and other members of an interprofessional team of health care providers.

### Faculty/Credentials

Kristina Angelo, Medical Epidemiologist  
DO, MPH&TM, CDC Traveler's Health Branch

### Original Date

December 09, 2019

### Expiration Date

December 09, 2021

### URL

http://bit.ly/33Yulnu

This activity is offered through Figure 1 (www.figure1.com), a platform
available for free as a mobile or web app (supported by iOS and Android and
Safari and Chrome, respectively). Participants are required to have a Figure 1
account to access the activity; they can sign up through the link above.  

### Hardware/software

Computer Hardware; Internet connection; Browser - Chrome or Safari

### Materials

None

### Target Audience

Physicians, Registered Nurses, and Physician Assistants

### Prerequisites

Basic medical/nursing and epidemiology training

### Format

Web-based

### Contact Information

travelhealthpi@cdc.gov

## Accreditation Statements

**CME:   **The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is accredited by the
Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME®) to provide
continuing medical education for physicians.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention designates this **enduring
material** for a maximum of **0.75** _AMA PRA Category 1 Credits ™._
Physicians should claim only the credit commensurate with the extent of their
participation in the activity

**CNE:   **The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is accredited as a
provider of Continuing Nursing Education by the American Nurses Credentialing
Center's Commission on Accreditation.

This activity provides **0.5** contact hours.

**DISCLOSURE:** In compliance with continuing education requirements, all
presenters must disclose any financial or other associations with the
manufacturers of commercial products, suppliers of commercial services, or
commercial supporters as well as any use of unlabeled product(s) or product(s)
under investigational use.

CDC, our planners, content experts, and their spouses/partners wish to
disclose they have no financial interests or other relationships with the
manufacturers of commercial products, suppliers of commercial services, or
commercial supporters. Planners have reviewed content to ensure there is no
bias.

Content will not include any discussion of the unlabeled use of a product or a
product under investigational use.

CDC did not accept commercial support for this continuing education activity.

## Instructions for Obtaining Continuing Education (CE)

In order to receive continuing education (CE) for WB4279 - Cholera Vaccine for
Travelers please visit TCEO and follow these 9 Simple Steps before 12/09/2021.

Complete the activity

Complete the Evaluation at TCEO

Pass the posttest at 70% at TCEO

**FEES:** No fees are charged for CDC's CE activities.



* * *

Page last reviewed: December 09, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                              * Destinations
                                                              * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                  * FAQ
                                                              * Travel Notices
                                                              * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                  * Clinical Updates
                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                  * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                  * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                  * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                  * After Travel Tips
                                                                  * Animal Safety
                                                                  * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                  * Blood Clots
                                                                  * Bug Bites
                                                                  * Business Travel
                                                                  * Cold Climates
                                                                  * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                  * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                  * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                  * During Travel Tips
                                                                  * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                  * Food and Water
                                                                  * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                    * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                  * High Altitudes
                                                                  * Holiday Travel
                                                                  * Hot Climates
                                                                  * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                  * Insurance
                                                                  * International Adoption
                                                                  * Jet Lag
                                                                  * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                  * Long-Term Travel
                                                                  * Lunar New Year
                                                                  * Mass Gatherings
                                                                  * Medical Tourism
                                                                  * Mental Health
                                                                  * Motion Sickness
                                                                  * Natural Disasters
                                                                  * Pack Smart
                                                                  * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                    * Posters
                                                                    * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                    * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                    * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                    * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                    * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                    * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                    * Road Safety
                                                                    * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                    * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                    * MERS Pictogram
                                                                    * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                    * Website Guide
                                                                    * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                    * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                    * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                    * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                    * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                  * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                  * Routine Vaccines
                                                                  * Senior Citizens
                                                                  * Sex Tourism
                                                                  * Spring Break Travel
                                                                  * STDs
                                                                  * Study Abroad
                                                                  * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                  * Sun Exposure
                                                                  * Tick Bites
                                                                  * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                  * Travel Vaccines
                                                                  * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                  * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                  * Traveling with Children
                                                                  * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                  * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                  * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                  * Travelers with Disability
                                                                  * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                  * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                  * Water Disinfection
                                                                  * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                  * Mobile Apps
                                                                  * RSS Feeds
                                                                * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                              * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                  * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                              * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                * Contents
                                                                  * Chapter 1
                                                                    * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                    * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                    *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                * Tables
                                                                * Maps
                                                                * Figures
                                                                * Boxes
                                                                * Updates
                                                                * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                  * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                              * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                * Adobe PDF file
                                                                * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                * Microsoft Word file
                                                                * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                * Audio/Video file
                                                                * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                * RealPlayer file
                                                                * Text file
                                                                * Zip Archive file
                                                                * SAS file
                                                                * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                * About CDC
                                                                * Jobs
                                                                * Funding
                                                                * Policies
                                                                * File Viewers & Players

                                                                * Privacy
                                                                * FOIA
                                                                * No Fear Act
                                                                * OIG
                                                                * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                * Facebook
                                                                * Twitter
                                                                * Youtube
                                                                * Instagram
  

                                                                * Syndicate
                                                                * CDC TV
                                                                * RSS
                                                                * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                * Email
                                                                * Recommend
                                                                * Tweet
                                                                * Post
                                                                * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                * Listen
                                                                * Watch
                                                                * eCards
                                                                * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

