https://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/index.html    
                Description: The National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases aims to prevent disease, disability, and death caused by a wide range of infectious diseases. A national center within CDC, The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.    
                Keywords: NCEZID, National Center for Emerging and Infectious Zoonotic Diseases, infectious disease, infectious diseases, emerging infectious disease, zoonotic disease, emerging diseases, zoonotic diseases, cdc infectious diseases, CDC Organization    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                  * Email
                                                                  * Syndicate

# National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)

EspaÃ±ol (Spanish)

Minus

Related Pages

#### The National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID) works to protect people at home and around the world from emerging
and zoonotic infections ranging from A to Z--anthrax to Zika. We are living in
an interconnected world where an outbreak of infectious disease is just a
plane ride away.

Learn More

![Was It Something I Ate? Food Safety
banner](/ncezid/images/homepage/slider/something-i-ate.jpg)

Patient Stories: Illnesses From Food & Animal Contact

![Ebola Responder Stories](/ncezid/images/homepage/slider/ebola-responder-
stories.jpg)

Ebola Responder Stories

![NCEZID Accomplishments 2019 cover](/ncezid/images/homepage/slider/ncezid-
accopmplishments-2019.jpg)

NCEZID Accomplishments 2019

![Slider image - Connect with us.](/ncezid/images/homepage/slider/connect-
with-us-2018.jpg)

Connect With Us

What's New

![Amanda MaCgurn in DRC](/ncezid/images/recent-work/2020/whats-new-section-
march.jpg)

                                                                  * Recent Work
                                                                  * Publications
                                                                  * _EID_ Journal
                                                                  * NCEZID Newsroom
                                                                  * Blog Posts

Stories

![Link to What We Do - Image a young boy standing on and leaning against a big
hunk of dirt and roots. A chained white dog stands on top of the rootball
looking relaxed next to the boy.](/ncezid/images/homepage/stories-features-
nav.jpg)

                                                                  * Global Stories
                                                                  * Partner Stories

What We Do

![Image link What We Do - Image shows Jane Basile working in a lab to prepare
reagents used in Zika testing in Ft. Collins,
CO.](/ncezid/images/homepage/jane-basile-ft-collins.jpg)

                                                                  * Recent Work
                                                                  * Our Topics
                                                                  * Publications
                                                                  * Division and Office Overviews
                                                                  * Our Partners

Multimedia

![Link to Multimedia section - still image from Lab Safety
video](/ncezid/images/homepage/multimedia-nav-16.jpg)

                                                                  * Animations and Videos
                                                                  * Medscape Commentaries
                                                                  * Graphics
                                                                  * Mobile Apps

Outbreaks

                                                                  * ![green microbe illustration used as outbreak icon](/ncezid/images/homepage/outbreak-icon-thumbnail.png)

Clover Sprouts - _E. coli_

                                                                  * ![green microbe illustration used as outbreak icon](/ncezid/images/homepage/outbreak-icon-thumbnail.png)

Ebola - Democratic Republic of the Congo, North Kivu Province

                                                                  * ![green microbe illustration used as outbreak icon](/ncezid/images/homepage/outbreak-icon-thumbnail.png)

Raw Milk - Drug-resistant _Brucella_ (RB51)

CDC Current Outbreak List

Highlighted Multimedia

![Making Dialysis Safer
infographic](/ncezid/images/homepage/infographics/making-dialysis-safer.jpg)

Making Dialysis Safer pdf icon[PDF - 1 page]

See more NCEZID Multimedia

## About NCEZID

Who We Are

![Photo of Rima Khabbaz, MD ](/ncezid/images/who-we-are/rima-khabbaz-150.jpg)

**Rima Khabbaz, MD**  
**Director, NCEZID**

                                                                  * Division and Office Overviews
                                                                  * Organizational Chart
                                                                  * Director Profile
                                                                  * Strategic Plans
                                                                  * Budget
                                                                  * About Our Name
                                                                  * CLIA Certificates
                                                                  * Connect with Us

Read More

email_03Get Email Updates

To receive a monthly update highlighting our recent work to prevent infectious
disease, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

Page last reviewed: March 16, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID)

home NCEZID

                                                                  * Who We Areplus icon
                                                                    * Division and Office Overviewsplus icon
                                                                      * DFWED
                                                                      * DGMQ
                                                                      * DHCPP
                                                                      * DHQP
                                                                      * DPEI
                                                                      * DSR
                                                                      * DVBD
                                                                      * OAMD
                                                                      * OHO
                                                                    * Organizational Chart
                                                                    * Director Profile
                                                                    * Strategic Plans
                                                                    * Budget
                                                                    * About Our Name
                                                                    * CLIA Certificates
                                                                    * Connect with Us
                                                                  * Whatâs Newplus icon
                                                                    * Newsroom 2020plus icon
                                                                      * Newsroom 2019
                                                                      * Newsroom 2018
                                                                      * Newsroom 2017
                                                                      * Newsroom 2016
                                                                      * Newsroom 2015
                                                                  * What We Doplus icon
                                                                    * Recent Workplus icon
                                                                      * Our Work: 2019
                                                                      * Our Work: 2018
                                                                      * Our Work: 2017
                                                                      * Our Work: 2016
                                                                      * Our Work: 2015
                                                                    * Our Topicsplus icon
                                                                      * Antibiotic-Resistant Infections
                                                                      * Border Safety
                                                                      * Deadly Infections
                                                                      * Foodborne Infections
                                                                      * Global Work
                                                                      * Healthcare-Associated Infections
                                                                      * Laboratory Science
                                                                      * Outbreak Response
                                                                      * One Health
                                                                      * Public Health Preparedness
                                                                      * State, Local, and Tribal Health
                                                                      * Technological Innovations
                                                                      * Vector-borne Infections
                                                                      * Waterborne and Fungal Infections
                                                                    * Cross-cutting Programsplus icon
                                                                      * Protecting Health at Home & Abroad
                                                                      * NCEZID Around The World
                                                                      * Tribal Health in Action
                                                                    * Innovationsplus icon
                                                                      * Introduction
                                                                      * Antibiotic Resistance
                                                                      * Biothreats
                                                                      * Fungal Infections
                                                                      * Hantavirus
                                                                      * Laboratory Science
                                                                      * Rabies
                                                                      * Smallpox
                                                                      * Preventing Bug Bites
                                                                      * Rocky Mountain spotted fever
                                                                      * Waterborne Diseases
                                                                      * Whole Genome Sequencing
                                                                      * Zika Maps
                                                                      * Zika Testing
                                                                      * Future Innovations
                                                                    * Publicationsplus icon
                                                                      * 2019 Highlightsplus icon
                                                                        * Moving the needle
                                                                        * Breaking the mold
                                                                        * Collaborating to make a difference
                                                                        * Combating infections in the US
                                                                        * Confronting infections across the globe
                                                                        * Protecting travelersâ health
                                                                        * Observing significant milestones
                                                                        * Looking Ahead to 2020
                                                                      * 2018 Highlightsplus icon
                                                                        * Protecting Patients from Infections
                                                                        * Protecting People from Domestic Health Threats
                                                                        * Fighting Global Outbreaks
                                                                        * Safeguarding Travelers & Border Health
                                                                        * Building Lab and Epi Capacity
                                                                        * One Health
                                                                        * Advanced Molecular Detection
                                                                        * Looking Ahead to 2019
                                                                      * 2017 Highlightsplus icon
                                                                        * Our Year in Numbers
                                                                        * Antibiotic Resistance
                                                                        * Vector-borne
                                                                        * Global & Border Health
                                                                        * Outbreaks (Domestic)
                                                                        * Outbreaks (Global)
                                                                        * Support to States
                                                                        * Sharing Lab Expertise
                                                                      * 2016 Highlights
                                                                      * 2015 Highlights
                                                                      * 2014 Highlights
                                                                      * 2013 Highlights
                                                                      * 2011-2012 Highlights
                                                                    * Our Partnersplus icon
                                                                      * CDC and Hilton Foundation partner to improve global water, sanitation, and hygiene
                                                                      * Vector-borne Disease Center of Excellence Provides Much-Needed Assistance After Hurricane Harvey
                                                                      * New rapid rabies test could revolutionize testing
                                                                      * Hatcheries work with CDC to prevent _Salmonella_
                                                                      * Healthier and safer in the water
                                                                      * Protecting travelersâ health
                                                                      * The power of innovation to advance public health
                                                                      * Prevent illnesses between people and pets
                                                                      * NCEZID partners on cryptococcal screening in South Africa
                                                                      * CDC and BD Partner to Fight Zika
                                                                      * World leaders partner to combat antibiotic resistance
                                                                      * Airline helps CDC save lives
                                                                      * Turning human waste into affordable fuel in Kenya
                                                                      * Promoting Antibiotic Stewardship
                                                                      * 100 Partners Work to Promote Safe Injection Practices
                                                                  * Storiesplus icon
                                                                    * Global Storiesplus icon
                                                                      * Protecting People in Haiti from Deadly Rabies
                                                                      * Tracking Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers in Uganda
                                                                      * Strengthening Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene Workforce in Sierra Leone
                                                                      * Making Plague a Disease of the Past in Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                      * Testing New Tools To Fight Monkeypox Outbreaks in Democratic Republic of the Congo
                                                                      * Ending Cholera Globally
                                                                      * Improving Diagnoses of Zika and Other Vector-Borne Diseases in Indonesia
                                                                      * Protecting Newborns in India from Antibiotic-Resistant Infections
                                                                      * Training Infection Prevention and Control Specialists in Nigeria
                                                                      * CDC Responds to a Dangerous Fungus Here and Abroad
                                                                      * Antibiotic Resistance in India
                                                                      * Epidemiology Training Helps Cholera Response in Kenya
                                                                      * Ebola Response in Sierra Leone
                                                                      * HAIs in the Country of Georgia
                                                                      * Vector-borne Disease Research in Uganda
                                                                      * CHAMPS Program
                                                                      * Global Rabies Work
                                                                      * Zoonotic Diseases in Ethiopia
                                                                      * Ebola Reservoir Study
                                                                  * Multimediaplus icon
                                                                    * Animations and Videos
                                                                    * Medscape Commentaries
                                                                    * Graphics
                                                                    * Mobile Apps

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                  * Funding
                                                                  * Policies
                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                  * OIG
                                                                  * Nondiscrimination
                                                                  * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                  * RSS
                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                  * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

