https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/faqLink: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/faq    
                Description: CDC Travelersâ Health Branch provides health advice to international travelers, including advice about medications and vaccines. On this page, youâll find some of our most frequently asked questions and responses.    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                  * Email
                                                                  * Syndicate

### Travelers' Health Most Frequently Asked Questions

#### On This Page

                                                                  * Travel Vaccines and Medications
                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccine
                                                                  * Zika
                                                                  * Embassies

CDC Travelers' Health Branch provides health advice to international
travelers, including advice about medications and vaccines. On this page,
you'll find some of our most frequently asked questions and responses.

### Travel Vaccines and Medications

**1\. What vaccines or medicines should I get before traveling to my
destination?**

A: It depends on where you are going and what you will be doing. Use our
destination tool to find the vaccines and medications you need for your next
trip, and schedule an appointment with your doctor or a travel medicine
specialist at least a month before traveling to get recommended or required
vaccines and medicines.

**2\. If I am going on a cruise that will stop in several countries, which
vaccines should I get for each country?**

![suitcase on yellow background](/travel/images/suitcase.jpg)

A: You should be up-to-date on routine vaccines, such as measles-mumps-rubella
(MMR), tetanus, and flu. Depending on where you're going and what activities
you plan, other vaccines may be recommended. More cruise information.

**3\. What is the difference between routine, recommended, and required
vaccines?**

**A:** **Routine vaccines** are those that are recommended for everyone in the
United States based on their age, health condition, or other risk factors. You
may think of these as the childhood vaccines you got before starting school,
but some are routinely recommended for adults, like the adult pertussis
booster Tdap, and some every year (like the flu vaccine) or every 10 years
(like the tetanus booster for adults).

A **required vaccine** is one that travelers must have in order to enter a
country, based on that country's regulations. Yellow fever, meningococcal, and
polio vaccines may be required by certain countries.

**Recommended** **vaccines** are those that CDC recommends travelers get to
protect their health, even if they aren't required for entry by the government
of the country you are visiting. They protect travelers from illnesses that
are usually travel-related. For example, a typhoid vaccine can prevent
typhoid, a serious disease spread by contaminated food and water, which is not
usually found in the United States. The vaccines recommended for a traveler
depend on several things, including age, health, and itinerary.

**Find out more about** **travel vaccines** **.** Clinicians: Use our 2-page
Quick Guide to Travel Vaccination Recommendations. ****

**4\. What are the prices of vaccines needed for travel outside the United
States?**

A: Prices vary by provider and insurance coverage. You should be able to get
routine vaccines from your primary health care provider, health clinic, or
health department. Travel clinics and yellow fever vaccine clinics should be
able to give you any vaccines that your health care provider cannot.  

**5\. How long do travel vaccines last (when do I need to get a booster
dose)?**

A: How long travel vaccines last depends on the vaccine. If you're traveling
outside the United States, you should see a health care provider who is
familiar with travel medicine at least a month before your trip. They can give
you advice about any vaccines and vaccine boosters based on where you are
going and your previous vaccinations. Be sure to bring your vaccine records to
your appointment!

**6\. Which medications can I travel with?**

A: When packing for trips abroad, don't forget there may be special
considerations for bringing your prescriptions and other medicines with you.
Some medicines that are commonly prescribed or available over-the-counter in
the United States can be illegal in other countries. Check with the embassy or
consulate in the country you will be visiting to make sure your medicines are
permitted in that country.

See your health care provider at least a month before you go to get any needed
or extra medications, and pack medications in your carry-on in case your
luggage is lost.

### Yellow Fever Vaccine

![Yellow fever vaccination certificate](/travel/images/yellow-fever-vax.jpg)

**7\. Which countries require yellow fever vaccine for travel?**

A: Some countries in South America and Africa require you to provide proof
that you have been vaccinated against yellow fever by presenting an
International Certificate of Vaccination or Prophylaxis when entering the
country. However, there are other popular travel destinations where the threat
of infection with yellow fever virus is very real, and _there is no
requirement for you to be vaccinated_ to enter the country.

If you only get the yellow fever vaccine before going to countries that
require it, you could be putting your health at risk. Since yellow fever
disease can be serious or even fatal, CDC recommends that individuals be
vaccinated when traveling to any areas where there is a risk of acquiring
infection with yellow fever virus. Use our  destination tool to find out which
vaccines the CDC recommends you have for anywhere you travel around the world
and talk to a travel medicine provider for more details.

Yellow fever vaccine is only available at yellow fever vaccine clinic, so call
ahead (well in advance of travel) and book your appointment.

Even if you get the yellow fever vaccine, you can still get other diseases
from mosquito bites, like malaria, dengue, and Zika. The best ways to prevent
mosquito-borne diseases are to use insect repellent while outdoors, wear long
pants and long sleeves, and choose accommodations with air conditioning or
mosquito nets. For travel to areas where malaria is a risk, taking medicine
that can prevent malaria may also be advised.

**8\. How far in advance of my trip do I need to get the yellow fever
vaccine?**

A: For most people, it takes up to 10 days after the vaccine is given to be
protected against the yellow fever virus. If your destination requires yellow
fever vaccine, the proof of vaccination does not become valid until 10 days
after the vaccine is given.

**9\. Where can I get a yellow fever vaccine in my area?**

A: The nearest yellow fever vaccination clinic may be far away from where you
live, and appointments may be limited. Be sure to contact the clinic ahead of
time.

**10\. Who should not get the yellow fever vaccine?**

A: Some people should not get the yellow fever vaccine: infants younger than 6
months, or people with a history of a bad reaction to the vaccine should not
receive yellow fever vaccine. If you have a thymus disorder associated with
abnormal immune cell function (such as a thymoma or myasthenia gravis) you
should not receive yellow fever vaccine. If cancer, or the drugs or radiation
used to treat cancer, has weakened your immune system, you should not receive
yellow fever vaccine. If you received an organ transplant and take medicines
to prevent rejection of that transplant, you should not receive yellow fever
vaccine. Other conditions and medicines can also affect your immune system and
could be a reason not to receive yellow fever vaccine. Check with your doctor
to find out more.

If you are older than 60 years old, pregnant, or breastfeeding, talk to your
doctor before getting a yellow fever vaccine. There are potential risks to
your health from the vaccine. If you are infected with HIV, talk to your
doctor; you may still be able to get yellow fever vaccine, depending on your
CD4 cell count and immune function. Infants 6-8 months old can receive yellow
fever vaccine, although it is less risky to postpone travel to areas with
yellow fever until the baby is 9 months of age or older. After the age of 9
months, the health risks from the vaccine are considerably lower.

### Zika

![Graphic: Zika Virus - Plan for Travel](/travel/images/zika-plan-for-
travel.png)

**11\. Is Zika a risk in my next destination?**

A: Check our world map of areas with risk of Zika for the most up-to-date
information before you make international travel plans. Please be advised: CDC
does not track the number of Zika cases outside the United States.

It is difficult to determine the risk of Zika in other countries. Zika
frequently causes only mild symptoms, and people with Zika might not go to the
doctor. If they go to a doctor, the doctor might not test for Zika or report
cases to the government. A lack of reported cases does not mean a lack of
risk. CDC considers any country that has ever had Zika cases to have possible
risk, but we cannot say how high or low that risk is.

CDC now recommends pregnant women and couples trying to become pregnant within
the next 3 months first talk to their healthcare providers and carefully
consider the risks and possible consequences of Zika infection before
traveling to areas that report past or current spread of Zika but no current
outbreak. Pregnant women: avoid mosquito bites and sexual exposure during
travel. If partner travels, avoid sex or use condoms for remainder of
pregnancy. Women planning to conceive may wish to delay pregnancy,

CDC continues to recommend that pregnant women not travel to areas where a
Zika outbreak is occurring.

### Embassies

**12\. How can I contact the local US embassy?**

![Graphic: Smart Traveler Enrollment Program](/travel/images/step-graphic.png)

A: 1. Enroll with the nearest US embassy or consulate through the Smart
Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP). It's a FREE service that allows US
citizens traveling or living abroad to receive the latest security updates for
their location.  
2\. If you need to contact a US embassy or consulate, call 1-888-407-4747
(from the US or Canada) OR 00-1-202-501-4444 (from other countries).

Travel healthy, from CDC's Travelers' Health!

* * *

Page last reviewed: May 22, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                  * Destinations
                                                                  * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                      * FAQ
                                                                  * Travel Notices
                                                                  * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                    * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                      * Clinical Updates
                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                      * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                      * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                      * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                    * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                      * After Travel Tips
                                                                      * Animal Safety
                                                                      * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                      * Blood Clots
                                                                      * Bug Bites
                                                                      * Business Travel
                                                                      * Cold Climates
                                                                      * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                      * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                      * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                      * During Travel Tips
                                                                      * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                      * Food and Water
                                                                      * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                        * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                      * High Altitudes
                                                                      * Holiday Travel
                                                                      * Hot Climates
                                                                      * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                      * Insurance
                                                                      * International Adoption
                                                                      * Jet Lag
                                                                      * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                      * Long-Term Travel
                                                                      * Lunar New Year
                                                                      * Mass Gatherings
                                                                      * Medical Tourism
                                                                      * Mental Health
                                                                      * Motion Sickness
                                                                      * Natural Disasters
                                                                      * Pack Smart
                                                                      * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                        * Posters
                                                                        * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                        * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                        * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                        * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                        * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                        * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                        * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                        * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                        * MERS Pictogram
                                                                        * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                        * Website Guide
                                                                        * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                        * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                        * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                        * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                        * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                      * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                      * Routine Vaccines
                                                                      * Senior Citizens
                                                                      * Sex Tourism
                                                                      * Spring Break Travel
                                                                      * STDs
                                                                      * Study Abroad
                                                                      * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                      * Sun Exposure
                                                                      * Tick Bites
                                                                      * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                      * Travel Vaccines
                                                                      * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                      * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                      * Traveling with Children
                                                                      * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                      * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                      * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                      * Travelers with Disability
                                                                      * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                      * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                      * Water Disinfection
                                                                      * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                      * Mobile Apps
                                                                      * RSS Feeds
                                                                    * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                    * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                  * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                    * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                    * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                      * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                  * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                    * Contents
                                                                      * Chapter 1
                                                                        * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                        * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                        *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                    * Tables
                                                                    * Maps
                                                                    * Figures
                                                                    * Boxes
                                                                    * Updates
                                                                    * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                      * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                    * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                    * Adobe PDF file
                                                                    * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                    * Microsoft Word file
                                                                    * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                    * Audio/Video file
                                                                    * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                    * RealPlayer file
                                                                    * Text file
                                                                    * Zip Archive file
                                                                    * SAS file
                                                                    * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                    * Funding
                                                                    * Policies
                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                    * OIG
                                                                    * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                    * RSS
                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                    * Email
                                                                    * Recommend
                                                                    * Tweet
                                                                    * Post
                                                                    * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                    * Listen
                                                                    * Watch
                                                                    * eCards
                                                                    * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

