https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/stdLink: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/std    
                Description: Sexually Transmitted Diseases    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                  * Syndicate

### Sexually Transmitted Diseases

![Happy couple](/travel/images/std-couple.jpg)

An estimated one in five travelers say they had sex with a new partner while
in a foreign country.1 The excitement of being in another country and meeting
new people may encourage travelers to do things they would not do at home.
Travelers who have unprotected sex (whether vaginal, anal, or oral sex) are at
risk for sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), including HIV, chlamydia,
syphilis, and gonorrhea. Many STDs can occur without any signs or symptoms, so
you may not realize that you or your partner is infected.  While most STDs are
treatable--some can cause serious health problems if left untreated.
Preventing an STD is always best.

### What can I do to prevent an STD?

**If you have sex,** **use a condom** every time, from start to finish. This
includes vaginal, oral, or anal sex.

The only sure way to prevent an STD is to not have sex, including oral sex.
However, if you are sexually active, here are other steps you can take to
protect yourself:

![Colorful condoms](/travel/images/std-condoms.jpg)

                                                                                                  * Consider getting vaccinated for hepatitis A and hepatitis B before you travel.
                                                                                                  * Ask your doctor about an HPV (human papillomavirus) vaccine.
                                                                                                  * Bring condoms from the United States, because those in other countries may not be up to US quality standards.
                                                                                                  * Don't assume your partner is STD-free because s/he doesn't mention it and STDs are often asymptomatic. Talk openly with him or her about your STD and HIV status and date of last testing.
                                                                                                  * Be cautious when having sex after drug or alcohol use. If you use alcohol or other drugs, you are more likely to take risks like not using a condom or like having sex with someone you normally wouldn't have sex with.

### What are the symptoms of an STD?

The symptoms of STDs are different depending on the infection. In fact, many
STDs don't cause any symptoms at all. When symptoms do occur, you may
experience:

                                                                                                  * Pain when you urinate or have sex
                                                                                                  * Discharge from the vagina, penis, or anus
                                                                                                  * Unexplained rash, sore, or ulcer on your skin, genitals, or throat
                                                                                                  * Jaundice (yellow color of the skin and eyes)

### What do I do if I think I have an STD?

![Patient sitting on table in doctor's exam room](/travel/images/std-exam-
room.jpg)

If you are sexually active, talk to your doctor about getting tested for STDs.
Make sure to have an open and honest conversation with your doctor about your
sexual history so he or she can determine the right STD tests for you.

Treating STDs early is important to prevent more serious and long-term
complications, and prevent spreading infection to your partners. If you think
you have an STD:

                                                                                                  * Do not have sex.
                                                                                                  * If you feel sick during your trip and think you may have an STD, see a doctor or nurse as soon as possible. See Getting Health Care Abroad.
                                                                                                  * Tell the doctor your recent sexual history and international travel (because some STDs may be more common in other countries).
                                                                                                  * If your doctor diagnoses you with an STD, notify your recent sex partner(s). Your partner(s) may also be infected and not know it and may need to get tested and treated.

For more information: Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)

#### Reference

1\. Vivancos R, Abubakar I, Hunter PR. Foreign travel, casual sex, and
sexually transmitted infections: systematic review and meta-analysis.
_International Journal of Infectious Diseases_. 2010;14(10):e842-51.

* * *

Page last reviewed: May 04, 2018

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                  * Destinations
                                                                                                  * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                      * FAQ
                                                                                                  * Travel Notices
                                                                                                  * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                    * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                      * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                      * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                      * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                      * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                    * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                      * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                      * Animal Safety
                                                                                                      * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                      * Blood Clots
                                                                                                      * Bug Bites
                                                                                                      * Business Travel
                                                                                                      * Cold Climates
                                                                                                      * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                      * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                      * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                      * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                      * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                      * Food and Water
                                                                                                      * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                        * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                      * High Altitudes
                                                                                                      * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                      * Hot Climates
                                                                                                      * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                      * Insurance
                                                                                                      * International Adoption
                                                                                                      * Jet Lag
                                                                                                      * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                      * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                      * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                      * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                      * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                      * Mental Health
                                                                                                      * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                      * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                      * Pack Smart
                                                                                                      * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                        * Posters
                                                                                                        * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                        * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                        * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                        * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                                        * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                        * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                        * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                        * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                        * Website Guide
                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                        * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                        * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                        * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                      * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                                                      * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                      * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                      * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                      * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                      * STDs
                                                                                                      * Study Abroad
                                                                                                      * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                      * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                      * Tick Bites
                                                                                                      * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                      * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                      * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                      * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                      * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                      * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                      * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                      * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                      * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                      * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                      * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                      * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                      * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                      * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                      * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                    * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                    * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                  * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                    * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                    * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                      * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                  * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                    * Contents
                                                                                                      * Chapter 1
                                                                                                        * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                        * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                        *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                    * Tables
                                                                                                    * Maps
                                                                                                    * Figures
                                                                                                    * Boxes
                                                                                                    * Updates
                                                                                                    * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                      * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                    * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                    * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                    * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                    * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                    * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                    * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                    * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                    * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                    * Text file
                                                                                                    * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                    * SAS file
                                                                                                    * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                    * Recommend
                                                                                                    * Tweet
                                                                                                    * Post
                                                                                                    * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                    * Listen
                                                                                                    * Watch
                                                                                                    * eCards
                                                                                                    * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

