https://www.cdc.gov/fundingLink: https://www.cdc.gov/funding    
                Description: The Office of Financial Resources aims to provide exceptional customer service in the management of CDC    
                Keywords: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, office of Financial Resources, Office of Financial Resources, OFR, Funding, PGO, Procurement and Grants Office, CDC funding, grants, contracts, budget, finance, Procurement, Financial Management    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Funding

Section Navigation

CDC Home

    * Facebook
    * Twitter
    * LinkedIn
    * Email
    * Syndicate

# Funding

Minus

Related Pages

![Office of Financial Resources Fiscal Year 2019 Annual Report and
snapshots](/funding/00_flexslider/images-flexslider-675x440/fy-2019-annual-
report.jpg)

![Understanding the difference between acquisition and
assistance](/funding/00_flexslider/images-flexslider-675x440/about-cdc-
grants-1.png)

![Learn more about CDC and Small Business](/funding/00_flexslider/images-
flexslider-675x440/small-business-1.png)

![Learn more abouf CDC Grant Funding
Eligibility](/funding/00_flexslider/images-flexslider-675x440/grant-funding-
eligibility-1.png)

![Learn more about CDC's budget request](/funding/00_flexslider/images-
flexslider-675x440/budget-request-1.png)

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) Office of Financial
Resources (OFR) aids in achieving CDC's mission by quickly and effectively
allocating funds to where they are needed. In its _Pledge to the American
People_, CDC commits to being a diligent steward of the funds entrusted to the
Agency. OFR ensures this pledge remains intact. To learn more about OFR,
please review our FY 2019 Annual Reportpdf icon, OFR Snapshotpdf icon,
Acquisition Snapshotpdf icon, and Assistance Snapshotpdf icon.

What's New - Funding

    * CDC 24/7 Response to COVID-19 Fact Sheet4/2/2020 8:39:00 AM
    * Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19): Information for Applicants and Recipients of CDC Funding3/24/2020 3:55:00 PM
    * CDC Office of Financial Resources FY 2019 Acquisition Snapshot2/26/2020 3:01:00 PM
    * CDC Office of Financial Resources FY 2019 Assistance Snapshot2/26/2020 3:00:00 PM
    * CDC Office of Financial Resources FY 2019 OFR Snapshot2/26/2020 2:58:00 PM
    * CDC Office of Financial Resources FY 2019 Annual Report2/26/2020 2:56:00 PM
    * FY 2020 CDC Operating Plan2/11/2020 5:00:00 PM
    * FY 2019 CDC Scientific Meeting Reports12/31/2019 5:00:00 PM
    * FY 2019 CDC Conference Reports12/27/2019 2:00:00 PM

More

Budget

![Capital building](/funding/images/budget-363x200.jpg)

View CDC's financial goals, objectives, and data analysis in budget requests
for each fiscal year.

Learn more

Contracts

![contracts with magnifying glass](/funding/images/contracts-363x200.jpg)

CDC uses contracts to purchase goods and services for the use and benefit of
the agency.

Learn more

Finance

![Plant held in hand](/funding/images/finance-363x200.jpg)

CDC accomplishes its public health mission through agency and accounting
initiatives.

Learn more

Grants

![group of people shaking hands](/funding/images/grants-363x200.jpg)

Learn more about how CDC funds research and non-research public health
programs.

Learn more

alert icon

About CDC Funding

building icon

About Our Office

paper icon

Determine Your Funding Eligibility

map icon

Funding profiles

link icon

Funding Resources

![Grants.gov logo](/funding/images/Grants-Gov-Logo.png)

Page last reviewed: February 26, 2020

Content source: Office of Financial Resources (OFR)

home Funding

    * About CDC Funding
    * About Our Office expand
      * Role and Value to CDC
    * Determine Your Funding Eligibility
    * Funding Profiles
    * Funding Resources
    * PPHF
    * Whatâs New

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

    * About CDC
    * Jobs
    * Funding
    * Policies
    * File Viewers & Players

    * Privacy
    * FOIA
    * No Fear Act
    * OIG
    * Nondiscrimination
    * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

    * Facebook
    * Twitter
    * Youtube
    * Instagram
  

    * Syndicate
    * CDC TV
    * RSS
    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

    * Facebook
    * Twitter
    * LinkedIn
    * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

