https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/travel-to-high-altitudesLink: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/travel-to-high-altitudes    
                Description: Travel to High Altitudes    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                          * Facebook
                                                                                                                                          * Twitter
                                                                                                                                          * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                          * Email
                                                                                                                                          * Syndicate

### Travel to High Altitudes

![Peru mountain scene](/travel/images/peruscene.jpg)

The low oxygen levels found at high altitudes can cause problems for travelers
who are going to destinations higher than 8,000 feet above sea level.

### Ascend Gradually

If you plan to travel to a higher altitude and sleep there, you can get sick
if you don't ascend gradually:

                                                                                                                                          * Do not go from a low altitude to sleeping at higher than 9,000 feet above sea level in one day. Instead, spend a few days at 8,000-9,000 feet before proceeding to a higher altitude to give your body time to adjust to the low oxygen levels.
                                                                                                                                          * Once you are above 9,000 feet, increase your sleeping altitude by no more than 1,600 feet per day. For every 3,300 feet you ascend, try to spend a day without ascending further.
                                                                                                                                          * Do not drink alcohol or do heavy exercise for at least the first 48 hours after you arrive at an altitude above 8,000 feet.
                                                                                                                                          * As an alternative, consider taking a day trip to a higher altitude and then returning to a lower altitude to sleep.

![sherpas in the mountains](/travel/images/sherpas.jpg)

Sometimes your itinerary may not allow gradual ascent. If this is the case,
talk to your doctor about prescribing a medicine to prevent altitude illness.
You should also be familiar with the symptoms of altitude illness so that you
can take steps to prevent it from becoming more severe. Many high-altitude
destinations are remote and lack access to medical care, so preventing
altitude illness is better than getting sick and needing emergency treatment.

### Altitude Illness

The symptoms of altitude illness are similar to those of a hangover: headache,
tiredness, lack of appetite, nausea, and vomiting. Children who cannot yet
talk may just seem fussy. Mild cases can be treated by alleviating symptoms
(such as with painkillers for a headache) and should go away on their own
within a few days. Medicines are available to shorten the time it takes to get
used to high altitude. However, people with altitude illness should not
continue to ascend until they have gotten used to the altitude. **A person
whose symptoms are getting worse while resting at the same altitude must
descend or risk serious illness or death** **.**

One severe consequence of altitude illness is swelling of the brain (high-
altitude cerebral edema [HACE]). Symptoms include extreme fatigue, drowsiness,
confusion, and loss of coordination. HACE is rare, but it can be fatal. If it
develops, the person must immediately descend to a lower altitude.

Swelling of the lungs (high-altitude pulmonary edema [HAPE]) is another severe
consequence of altitude illness. Symptoms include shortness of breath,
weakness, and cough. A person with HAPE must also descend and will likely need
oxygen.

### Preexisting Medical Conditions

![snow skier](/travel/images/skiers.jpg)

People with pre-existing medical conditions should talk with a doctor before
traveling to high altitudes:

                                                                                                                                          * People with heart or lung disease should talk to a doctor who is familiar with high-altitude medicine before their trip.
                                                                                                                                          * People with diabetes need to be aware that their illness may be difficult to manage at high altitudes. Pregnant women can make brief trips to high altitudes, but they should talk with their doctor because they may be advised not to sleep at altitudes above 12,000 feet.

### More Information

High Altitude Travel and Altitude Illness

* * *

Page last reviewed: November 18, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                          * Destinations
                                                                                                                                          * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                              * FAQ
                                                                                                                                          * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                          * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                            * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                              * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                              * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                              * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                              * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                            * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                              * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                              * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                              * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                              * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                              * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                              * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                              * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                              * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                              * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                              * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                              * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                              * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                              * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                              * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                              * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                              * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                              * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                              * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                              * Insurance
                                                                                                                                              * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                              * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                              * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                              * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                              * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                              * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                              * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                              * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                              * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                              * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                              * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                              * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                * Posters
                                                                                                                                                * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                              * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                              * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                              * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                              * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                              * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                              * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                              * STDs
                                                                                                                                              * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                              * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                              * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                              * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                              * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                              * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                              * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                              * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                              * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                              * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                              * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                              * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                              * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                              * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                              * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                              * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                              * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                              * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                              * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                            * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                            * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                          * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                            * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                            * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                              * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                          * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                            * Contents
                                                                                                                                              * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                            * Tables
                                                                                                                                            * Maps
                                                                                                                                            * Figures
                                                                                                                                            * Boxes
                                                                                                                                            * Updates
                                                                                                                                            * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                              * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                          * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                            * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                            * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                            * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                            * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                            * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                            * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                            * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                            * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                            * Text file
                                                                                                                                            * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                            * SAS file
                                                                                                                                            * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                            * About CDC
                                                                                                                                            * Jobs
                                                                                                                                            * Funding
                                                                                                                                            * Policies
                                                                                                                                            * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                            * Privacy
                                                                                                                                            * FOIA
                                                                                                                                            * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                            * OIG
                                                                                                                                            * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                            * Youtube
                                                                                                                                            * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                            * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                            * RSS
                                                                                                                                            * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                                                                            * Recommend
                                                                                                                                            * Tweet
                                                                                                                                            * Post
                                                                                                                                            * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                            * Listen
                                                                                                                                            * Watch
                                                                                                                                            * eCards
                                                                                                                                            * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                            * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                            * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                            * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                            * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

