https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/travel-vaccinesLink: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/travel-vaccines    
                Description: Learn which vaccines are recommended and required for travel    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                * Email
                                                                                                                                                * Syndicate

### Need travel vaccines? Plan ahead.

![Image of luggage](/travel/images/travel-vaccines-luggage.jpg)

**Vaccines protect travelers from getting diseases abroad that may not
normally be found in the United States.**

Visiting another country can put you at risk for diseases that may not
normally be found in the United States. Getting vaccinated against certain
diseases is one of the most effective things you can do to protect your health
abroad. Plan to get the travel vaccines you need at least a month before your
trip. Most vaccines need to be given ahead of time to give you full protection
against a disease. If you need a yellow fever vaccine, plan to travel some
distance away from where you live to get it. Only a limited number of clinics
have the vaccine.

### What vaccines do I need before I travel?

                                                                                                                                                * **You should be up to date on yourroutine vaccines. **Depending on where you travel, you may come into contact with diseases that are rare in the United States. For example, although measles is rare in the United States, it is more common in other countries. Measles outbreaks happen frequently in many popular destinations in Europe and beyond--don't go unprotected!
                                                                                                                                                * **You may need other vaccines before you travel depending on yourdestination, your medical history, your planned activities, and other health concerns. **Discuss your itinerary with your health care provider to make sure you get any destination-specific vaccines and medicines, such as yellow fever vaccine or medicine to prevent malaria.

### What is the difference between routine, required, and recommended
vaccines?

CDC divides vaccines for travel into three categories: (1) routine, (2)
required, and (3) recommended.

                                                                                                                                                * **Routine vaccines** are those that are recommended for everyone in the United States based on their age, health condition, or other risk factors. You may think of these as the childhood vaccines that you get before starting school, but some are routinely recommended for adults, and some are recommended every year (like the flu vaccine) or every 10 years (like the tetanus booster for adults).
                                                                                                                                                * A **required vaccine** is one that travelers must have in order to enter a country, based on that country's government regulations. In most circumstances, yellow fever is the only vaccine required by certain countries. Keep in mind that yellow fever vaccine can be recommended by CDC to protect your health, as well as required by a country. CDC's  _recommendation_  is different from the country's  _requirement_. A vaccine  _recommendation_  is designed to keep you from getting yellow fever; a vaccine  _requirement_  is the country's attempt to keep travelers from bringing the yellow fever virus into the country. Vaccine requirements can change at any time, because country governments control those decisions.
                                                                                                                                                * **Recommended** **vaccines** are those that CDC recommends travelers get to protect their health, even though they aren't required for entry by the government of the country you are visiting. Recommended vaccines are not part of the routine vaccination schedule. They protect travelers from illnesses that are usually travel-related. For example, a typhoid vaccine can prevent typhoid, a serious disease spread by contaminated food and water, which is not usually found in the United States. The vaccines recommended for a traveler depend on several things, including age, health, and itinerary.

### Where can I go to get travel vaccines?

There are many providers for pre-travel health care. If you are traveling to a
country with health risks similar to those in the United States, you may be
able to see your family doctor or nurse for needed vaccines. Your city or
county health department may also provide travel vaccines.

However, many travelers will need to see a travel medicine specialist. This
might be the case if you are visiting several countries or countries with many
health risks, or if you have a pre-existing health condition. To learn more
about where to get travel vaccines, see Find a Clinic.

If yellow fever vaccine is recommended for or required by your destination,
you'll need to go to a vaccine center authorized to give yellow fever
vaccinations. Many yellow fever vaccine centers also provide other pre-travel
health care services. Find an authorized US yellow fever vaccine center.

### How far ahead should I get any needed travel vaccines?

You should make an appointment with a travel medicine specialist or your
health care provider ideally **at least a month** before your trip to get
needed vaccines and medicines. Even if you're a last-minute traveler, there
may be options for getting the vaccines and medicines you need.

If you need a yellow fever vaccine, keep in mind that it is currently
available only at a limited number of clinics in theUnited States.The nearest
yellow fever vaccination clinic may be some distance away from where you live,
and appointments may be limited. Find the nearest clinic and contact it ahead
of time to make sure it has the vaccine.

### How long does immunity from travel vaccines last (when do I need to get a
booster dose)?

How long travel vaccines last depends on the vaccine. If you're traveling
outside the United States, you should see a health care provider who is
familiar with travel medicine to talk about your upcoming trip. He or she will
be able to provide you with advice for any vaccines and vaccine boosters based
upon where you are going and when you got your previous vaccinations. **Be
sure to bring your vaccine records to your appointment!**

### Can I get travel vaccines in a country outside the United States to save
on costs?

CDC does not recommend getting travel vaccines in another country because:

                                                                                                                                                * Most vaccines need to be administered ahead of time to give you full protection against a disease.
                                                                                                                                                * Vaccines available in other countries may be different from the ones used in the United States and may be less effective.
                                                                                                                                                * If you're concerned about the cost of travel vaccines and medicines, check to see if your city or county health department has a travel medicine clinic. It may cost less to visit a doctor there than to go to a private doctor.



* * *

Page last reviewed: October 11, 2018

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                    * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                  * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                    * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                    * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                    * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                    * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                  * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                    * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                    * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                    * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                    * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                    * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                    * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                    * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                    * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                    * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                    * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                    * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                    * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                    * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                      * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                    * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                    * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                    * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                    * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                    * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                    * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                    * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                    * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                    * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                    * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                    * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                    * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                    * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                    * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                    * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                    * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                    * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                      * Posters
                                                                                                                                                      * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                      * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                      * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                      * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                      * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                      * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                    * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                    * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                    * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                    * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                    * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                    * STDs
                                                                                                                                                    * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                    * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                    * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                    * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                    * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                    * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                    * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                    * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                    * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                    * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                    * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                    * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                    * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                    * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                  * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                  * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                    * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                  * Contents
                                                                                                                                                    * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                      * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                      *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                  * Tables
                                                                                                                                                  * Maps
                                                                                                                                                  * Figures
                                                                                                                                                  * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                  * Updates
                                                                                                                                                  * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                    * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                  * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                  * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                  * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                  * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                  * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                  * Text file
                                                                                                                                                  * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                  * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                  * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                  * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                  * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                  * Post
                                                                                                                                                  * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                  * Listen
                                                                                                                                                  * Watch
                                                                                                                                                  * eCards
                                                                                                                                                  * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

