https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/routine-vaccinesLink: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/routine-vaccines    
                Description: Routine vaccines are those recommended for everyone in the United States, depending on age and vaccine history. Most people think of these as childhood vaccines that you get before starting school, but CDC also recommends routine vaccines for adults (for example, flu vaccine and tetanus booster shots).    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                * Email
                                                                                                                                                                * Syndicate

### Routine Vaccines

![routine vaccines](/travel/images/routine-vax-guy.jpg)

### What are "routine vaccines"?

Routine vaccines are those recommended for everyone in the United States,
depending on age and vaccine history. Most people think of these as childhood
vaccines that you get before starting school, but CDC also recommends routine
vaccines for adults (for example, flu vaccine and tetanus booster shots).

### Why are routine vaccines important for travelers?

Because of good vaccine coverage of children in the United States, some of the
diseases prevented by routine vaccines rarely occur here. However, these
diseases can be much more common in other countries, even in areas where you
wouldn't normally worry about travel-related illnesses. For example, although
measles is rare in the United States, it is more common in other countries.
Measles outbreaks happen frequently in many popular tourist destinations in
Europe and beyond--don't go unprotected!

Being up-to-date on your routine vaccines will give you the best protection
against these illnesses.

### What routine vaccines do I need?

What vaccines you need depends on your age, health, and what vaccines you have
already had. For most adults who received all their recommended vaccines as
children, only a yearly flu vaccine and a tetanus booster every 10 years are
needed. However, you should talk to your doctor about what's best for you. If
you did not receive all your vaccines as a child--or if you can't remember--
your doctor may recommend giving them again, just to be safe. For older
adults, vaccination against pneumococcal disease or shingles might be advised.

For more information on immunization schedules, see:

                                                                                                                                                                * Infants & Children (birth through 6 years old)
                                                                                                                                                                * Preteens & Teens (7 through 18 years old)
                                                                                                                                                                * Adults (19 years and older)

* * *

Page last reviewed: November 26, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                    * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                  * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                    * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                    * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                    * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                    * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                    * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                    * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                    * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                    * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                    * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                    * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                    * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                    * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                    * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                    * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                    * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                    * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                      * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                    * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                    * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                    * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                    * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                    * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                    * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                    * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                    * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                    * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                    * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                    * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                    * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                    * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                    * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                    * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                    * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                    * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                      * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                      * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                      * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                      * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                      * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                      * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                      * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                      * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                    * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                    * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                    * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                    * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                    * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                    * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                    * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                    * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                    * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                    * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                    * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                    * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                    * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                    * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                    * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                  * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                  * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                    * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                  * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                    * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                      * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                      *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                  * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                  * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                  * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                  * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                  * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                  * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                    * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                  * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                  * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                  * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                  * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                  * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                  * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                  * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                  * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                  * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                  * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                  * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                  * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                  * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                  * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                  * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                  * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                  * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                  * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                  * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                  * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                  * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                  * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                  * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                  * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                  * Post
                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                  * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                  * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                  * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                  * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                  * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                  * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                  * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

