https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/spring-break-travelLink: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/spring-break-travel    
                Description: Wherever your travels take you this spring break, stay healthy and safe with these tips.    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate

### Spring Break Travel

![Group selfie on the beach](/travel/images/spring-break.jpg)

As spring approaches, many spring breakers will be looking forward to sunny
destinations and a long week of relaxation. Some may travel to tropical hot
spots, like Cancun or islands in the Caribbean, while others may opt for
bustling cities, like Amsterdam or Bangkok. Not all spring break destinations
are created equal: Some have specific health risks you should be aware of.

**Wherever your travels take you this spring break, stay healthy and safe with
these tips fromCDC Travelers' Health.**

### Before You Go

                                                                                                                                                                            * Find out what vaccines, medicines, or advice is needed for your destination and plan a visit with your doctor or a travel medicine specialist at least 1 month before you leave the United States.
                                                                                                                                                                            * Get your flu shot at least 2 weeks before you travel, as it can take up to 2 weeks to be fully protected. Also, stay clear of people who are coughing or otherwise appear to be ill, and wash your hands often with soap and water.
                                                                                                                                                                            * Make sure you are up-to-date on the MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) vaccine. There are outbreaks of measles in popular destinations.
                                                                                                                                                                            * Talk to your doctor about the hepatitis A and hepatitis B vaccines.

#### Other items to add to your to-do list:

                                                                                                                                                                            * Find out if your health insurance covers medical care abroad--many plans don't! Consider additional insurance that covers health care and emergency evacuation, especially if you will be traveling to remote areas.
                                                                                                                                                                            * Pack smart and prepare a travel health kit with the items you may need on your trip, including prescription and over-the-counter medicines, insect repellent, sunscreen, alcohol-based hand sanitizer, and condoms.
                                                                                                                                                                            * Check the US Department of State website for information on security risks. Register with the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program so the US embassy or consulate can contact you in case of an emergency.

### During Your Trip

**Don 't leave your healthy habits at home**-- _" what happens on spring break
stays on spring break_" may imply that taking risks is expected, but you
should always play it safe when it comes to your health.

                                                                                                                                                                            * **STDs.** Use condoms every time, to reduce your risk of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs)!
                                                                                                                                                                            * **Road safety.**  Motor vehicle crashes are the leading cause of death among healthy travelers. Choose safe transportation. Always wear a seat belt, and ride only in marked taxis or ride-sharing vehicles. Be alert when crossing the street, especially in countries where people drive on the left.
                                                                                                                                                                            * **Prevent insect bites.** Use insect repellent to protect against diseases spread by mosquitoes, such as Zika, dengue, and malaria. Always apply after your SPF 15+.
                                                                                                                                                                            * **Wear sunscreen with SPF 15 or higher when outdoors.** Remember that sun protection isn't just for tropical beaches--you can get a sunburn even if it's cloudy or cold!
                                                                                                                                                                            * **Be safe on tours.** Use a reputable travel guide or tour company if you plan on doing any adventure travel activities like reef diving, surfing, or zip-lining.
                                                                                                                                                                            * **Be careful when indulging in the local cuisine** **.**  In developing countries, eat only food that has been fully cooked and served hot. Only eat fresh vegetables or fruits if you can peel them yourself. Drink only bottled, sealed beverages, and steer clear of ice--it was probably made with tap water.
                                                                                                                                                                            * **Norovirus.** Cruise ship outbreaks of vomiting and diarrhea, primarily caused by norovirus, have been reported. Don't let this virus ruin your trip. The best ways to prevent illness are frequent handwashing with soap and water, and practicing safe eating and drinking habits while on off-boat excursions.
                                                                                                                                                                            * If you get sick or injured and need immediate medical attention while you're on your trip, contact the US embassy or consulate in your destination; they can help you locate medical services in your area as well as notify friends, family, or your employer in case of an emergency. For more information, see Getting Health Care Abroad.

### After You Return

If you're not feeling well after your trip, call your doctor and tell them
where you have traveled, including where you went and what you did on your
trip. You may have picked up a virus or other infection during your trip, even
though you did not have symptoms until you returned. Telling your doctor where
you have been will help your doctor consider infections that are rarely found
in the United States. If you need help finding a travel medicine specialist,
find a clinic here.



* * *

Page last reviewed: February 12, 2020

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                            * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                            * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                  * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                  * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                  * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                              * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                            * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                              * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                  *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                              * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                              * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                              * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                              * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                              * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                              * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                              * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                              * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                              * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                              * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                              * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                              * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                              * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                              * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                              * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                              * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                              * Post
                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                              * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                              * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                              * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                              * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

