https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/travel-abroad-with-medicineLink: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/travel-abroad-with-medicine    
                Description: Traveling Abroad with Medicine    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

### Traveling Abroad with Medicine

![pills in shape of world map](/travel/images/travel-with-medicine.jpg)

Many travelers must carry their medicines with them across international
borders to treat chronic or serious health problems. However, each country has
its own guidelines about which medicines are legal. Medicines that are
commonly prescribed or available over the counter in the United States could
be considered unlicensed or controlled substances in other countries. For
example, in Japan, some inhalers and certain allergy and sinus medications are
illegal. Also, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) has strict narcotics laws that
have landed many travelers in prison.

While rules vary from country to country, there can be serious consequences if
you violate the laws of the country you're visiting. These consequences can
range from confiscation (removal) of your medicine, which could harm your
medical treatment, to stiff penalties, including imprisonment on charges for
drug trafficking. To avoid medicine-related issues during your travel, follow
these tips.

### Before You Go

### Buying Medicine at Your Destination

Don't plan on being able to buy your medicines at your destination. They may
not be available, and if they are, they may not meet US quality standards. In
many developing countries, counterfeit drugs are a big problem.

If you must buy drugs during your trip in an emergency, there are ways to
reduce your chances of buying counterfeit drugs:

                                                                                                                                                                                  * Contact the nearest US embassy or consulate. They should be able to connect you with doctors and pharmacies that can help you find reliable, quality medicines.
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Buy medicines only from licensed pharmacies and get a receipt. Do not buy medicines from open markets.
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Ask the pharmacist whether the drug has the same active ingredient as the one you were taking.
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Make sure the medicine is in its original packaging.
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Look closely at the packaging. Sometimes poor-quality printing or otherwise strange-looking packaging will indicate a counterfeit product.

                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Check with the** **foreign embassy** of the country you will be visiting or passing through to make sure your medicines are permitted in that country. 
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Be aware that many countries only allow taking a 30-day supply of certain medicines and require the traveler to carry a prescription or a medical certificate.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * If your medicine is banned at your destination, talk with your health care provider about alternative medicine or destination options, and have your doctor write a letter describing your condition and the treatment plan.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * The International Narcotics Control Board (INCB) provides general information about country regulations for travelers carrying medicines that are made with controlled substances. It's important to note that INCB may not have information from all countries or territories.
                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Make an appointment**  with a travel medicine specialist or your health care provider to get needed vaccines and medicines at least 4 to 6 weeks before you leave. 
                                                                                                                                                                                    * If you plan to be gone for **more than 30 days** , talk to your doctor about how you can get enough medicine for your trip. Sometimes insurance companies will pay for only a 30-day supply at a time.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ask your doctor about any changes to taking your medicine once you're in a different time zone. Medicines should be taken according to the time since your last dose, not the local time of day.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ask how to safely store medicine and check whether it needs refrigeration. Keep in mind that extreme temperatures can reduce the effectiveness of many medicines.
                                                                                                                                                                                  * **Pack smart** and put your medicines in your carry-on luggage. You don't want to be stuck without them if your suitcase gets lost! 
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bring enough medicine to last your whole trip, plus a little extra in case of delays.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Keep medicines in their original, labeled containers. Ensure that they are clearly labeled with your full passport name, doctor's name, generic and brand name, and exact dosage.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Bring copies of all prescriptions, including the generic names for medicines.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Leave a copy of your prescriptions at home with a friend or relative in case you lose your copy or need an emergency refill.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Pack a note on letterhead stationery from the prescribing doctor (preferably translated into the language understood at your destination) for controlled substances, such as marijuana, and injectable medicines, such as EpiPens and insulin.

### More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Medications (US Department of Homeland Security)
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Smartly with Prescription Medications (US Department of State)
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Prescription Medications (US Food and Drug Administration)



* * *

Page last reviewed: August 22, 2018

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                  * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                      * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                      * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                      * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                        * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                      * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                      * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                        * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                        * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                      * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                        *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                    * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                      * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                    * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                    * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                    * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                    * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                    * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                    * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

