https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/yellowbook/2020/introduction/introduction-to-travel-health-and-the-cdc-yellow-bookLink: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/yellowbook/2020/introduction/introduction-to-travel-health-and-the-cdc-yellow-book    
                Description: Information about how to order the U.S. government publication about traveling titled &amp;amp;quot;Health Information for International Travel&amp;amp;quot; (also called the &amp;amp;quot;Yellow Book&amp;amp;quot;). Provided by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

#  Chapter 1 Introduction

                                                                                                                                                                                              * Chapter 1 - Travel Epidemiology

## Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book

Phyllis E. Kozarsky, Ronnie Henry

### TRAVEL HEALTH

The number of people traveling internationally continues to grow. According to
the World Tourism Organization, there were 1.33 billion worldwide
international tourist arrivals in 2017, an increase of 88% from 2015.
International arrivals increased 6% in January-April 2018 compared to the same
period in 2017. In 2017, US residents made nearly 88 million trips with at
least 1 night outside the United States.

The importance of protecting the health of individual travelers, as well as
safeguarding the health of the communities to which they return, cannot be
overstated. People travel internationally for many reasons, including tourism,
business, study abroad, research, visiting friends and relatives, ecotourism,
adventure, medical tourism, mission work, and international disaster response.
Travelers are as unique as their itineraries, covering all age ranges and
having a variety of preexisting health concerns and conditions. The infectious
disease risks that travelers face are dynamic--some travel destinations have
become safer, while in other areas new diseases have emerged, and other
diseases have reemerged.

The risk of becoming ill or injured during international travel depends on
many factors, such as the region of the world visited, a traveler's age and
health status, the length of the trip, and the diversity of planned
activities. CDC provides international travel health information that covers
the range of health risks travelers may face, with the aim of assisting
travelers and clinicians to better understand the measures necessary to
prevent illness and injury during international travel. This publication and
the CDC Travelers' Health website (www.cdc.gov/travel) are 2 primary avenues
of communicating CDC's travel health recommendations.

### Box 1-01.âCDC contact information for clinicians

#### CDC-INFO National Contact Center

All topics for clinicians and general public ( _English and Spanish_ )

                                                                                                                                                                                              * 8 am to 8 pm Eastern, M-F: toll-free at 800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636)
                                                                                                                                                                                              * E-mail form: www.cdc.gov/info

#### CDC Emergency Operations Center

Emergency or urgent patient care assistance _(Note:  This line is not intended
for use by the general public.)_

                                                                                                                                                                                              * Available 24 hours per day, 7 days per week: 770-488-7100

#### CDC Drug Service

Distribution of special biologic agents and drugs

                                                                                                                                                                                              * Formulary: www.cdc.gov/laboratory/drugservice/formulary.html
                                                                                                                                                                                              * 8 am to 4:30 pm Eastern, M-F: 404-639-3670
                                                                                                                                                                                              * After hours/weekends/holidays: 770-488-7100
                                                                                                                                                                                              * E-mail: drugservice@cdc.gov

#### Chikungunya, Japanese Encephalitis, Tickborne Encephalitis, and Yellow
Fever

Assistance with diagnostic testing for these diseases and for questions about
antibody response to yellow fever vaccination

                                                                                                                                                                                              * Division of Vectorborne Diseases, 8 am to 4:30 pm Mountain, M-F: 970-221-6400
                                                                                                                                                                                              * Viral Special Pathogens Branch can also assist for tickborne encephalitis, 8:30 am to 5:30 pm Eastern, M-F: 404-639-1115
                                                                                                                                                                                              * After hours/weekends/holidays: 770-488-7100
                                                                                                                                                                                              * State or local health departments may be able to assist: www.cdc.gov/ncezid/dhcpp/vspb/specimens.html

#### Dengue

Dengue diagnostic testing assistance

                                                                                                                                                                                              * 8 am to 5 pm Atlantic (office in Puerto Rico), M-F: 787-706-2399
                                                                                                                                                                                              * After hours/weekends/holidays: 770-488-7100
                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinical/laboratory guidance: www.cdc.gov/Dengue/clinicalLab/index.html

#### Malaria Hotline

Diagnosis and management assistance

                                                                                                                                                                                              * 9 am to 5 pm Eastern, M-F: 770-488-7788 or toll-free at 855-856-4713
                                                                                                                                                                                              * Emergency consultation after hours/weekends/holidays: 770-488-7100, ask for a Malaria Branch clinician

#### Parasitic Diseases (other than malaria)

##### _Live support_

Evaluation and management assistance for patients suspected to have a
parasitic disease

                                                                                                                                                                                              * 8 am to 4 pm Eastern, M-F: 404-718-4745
                                                                                                                                                                                              * Emergency consultation after hours/weekends/holidays: 770-488-7100, ask for an on-call clinician in Parasitic Diseases
                                                                                                                                                                                              * E-mail: parasites@cdc.gov

##### _Online Support DPDx_

Online diagnostic assistance service for laboratorians, pathologists, and
other health professionals developed and maintained by CDC's Division of
Parasitic Diseases and Malaria (DPDM)

                                                                                                                                                                                              * www.cdc.gov/dpdx/contact.html

#### Rickettsial Diseases

Diagnostic and treatment assistance

                                                                                                                                                                                              * 8 am to 4:30 pm Eastern, M-F: 404-639-1075
                                                                                                                                                                                              * Emergency consultation after hours/weekends/holidays: 770-488-7100, ask for an on-call clinician in Rickettsial Diseases

#### Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers

##### _Diagnosis_

Consultation for diagnosis and reporting suspected cases in or requiring
evacuation to the United States

                                                                                                                                                                                              * 8:30 am to 5:30 pm Eastern, M-F: 404-639-1115
                                                                                                                                                                                              * Emergency consultation after hours/weekends/holidays: 770-488-7100

##### _Treatment_

Requests for ribavirin from Bausch Health US, LLC through the Food and Drug
Administration (FDA)

                                                                                                                                                                                              * FDA Provider Request Line: 301-736-3400, ext *
                                                                                                                                                                                              * Simultaneously notify Bausch Health at 800-548-5100, ext. 3

### HISTORY AND ROLES OF THE YELLOW BOOK

 _CDC Health Information for International Travel_ ("The Yellow Book") has
been a trusted resource for over 50 years. In 1967, CDC published the first
Yellow Book, a small pamphlet intended to satisfy the International Sanitary
Regulations requirements (1951) and later, the International Health
Regulations (IHR). Adopted by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 1969 and
completely revised in 2005, the IHR are designed to ensure maximum security
against the international spread of diseases, with minimum interference with
world travel and commerce. A copy of the current IHR and supporting
information can be found on the WHO website (www.who.int/csr/ihr/en).

In addition to reporting public health events of international concern, the
United States must also inform the public about health requirements for
entering or leaving other countries, such as the need to be vaccinated against
yellow fever. The Yellow Book and the CDC Travelers' Health website aim to
communicate these requirements under the IHR (2005).

The Yellow Book has expanded significantly in breadth and depth over the
years. It is written primarily for clinicians, including physicians, nurses,
and pharmacists. Others, such as people in the travel industry, multinational
corporations, missionary and volunteer organizations, and individual
travelers, can also find a wealth of informationâ¯here.

Authored by subject-matter experts both within and outside CDC, the guidelines
presented in this book are evidence-based and supported by best practices.
Internal text citations have not been included; however, a bibliography is
appended to the end of each section for those interested in more detailed
information. The CDC Travelers' Health program and the CDC Foundation are
pleased to partner with Oxford University Press, Inc., to publish the 2020
edition. In addition to the printed copy, a searchable, online version of the
Yellow Book can be found on the CDC Travelers' Health website
(www.cdc.gov/yellowbook).

Although this publication includes the most current information available at
the time of printing, requirements and recommendations can change. Check the
CDC Travelers' Health website (www.cdc.gov/travel) and the online Yellow Book
for regularly updated information on requirements for international travel.

### CONTACT INFORMATION FOR CDC

Questions, comments, and suggestions for CDC Travelers' Health, including
comments about this publication, may be made through the CDC-INFO contact
center, toll-free at 800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) 8 am to 8 pm Eastern Time
(Monday-Friday, closed on holidays) or by visiting www.cdc.gov/info to submit
your question through an onlineâ¯form.

#### Pretravel or Posttravel Clinical Questions

The CDC is not a medical facility. Clinicians needing assistance with
preparing patients for international travel should consider a referral to a
travel clinic or a clinic listed on the International Society of Travel
Medicine (ISTM) website (www.istm.org).

Clinicians with posttravel health questions regarding their patients may refer
to a clinic listed on the ISTM website, the American Society of Tropical
Medicine and Hygiene website (www.astmh.org), or a medical university with
specialists in infectious diseases.

State and local health departments may also be useful resources.

Because of the complexity of some travel-related diseases, Box 1-01 lists
contact information for providers needing clinical assistance.

### BIBLIOGRAPHY

                                                                                                                                                                                              1. United Nations World Tourism Organization. UNWTO World Tourism Barometer, Vol. 16 (June 6). Madrid: United Nations World Tourism Organization; 2018 [cited 2018 Jul 12]. Available from: www.e-unwto.org/doi/abs/10.18111/wtobarometereng.2018.16.1.3.
                                                                                                                                                                                              2. US Department of Commerce, Office of Travel and Tourism Industries. 2017 US Citizen Travel to International Regions. Washington, DC: US Department of Commerce; 2018 [cited 2018 Jul 12]. Available from: https://travel.trade.gov/view/m-2017-O-001/index.html.
                                                                                                                                                                                              3. World Health Organization. International Health Regulations (2005). Geneva: World Health Organization; 2008 [cited 2018 Jul 12]; 2nd edition. Available from: www.who.int/ihr/publications/9789241596664/en/.

                                                                                                                                                                                              * Chapter 1 - Travel Epidemiology

* * *

Page last reviewed: June 21, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                              * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                              * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                              * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                    *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                  * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                              * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

