https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/sex-tourismLink: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/sex-tourism    
                Description: Sex Tourism    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Syndicate

### Sex Tourism

![colorful condoms](/travel/images/colorful-condoms.jpg)

"Sex tourism" is defined as travel planned specifically for the purpose of
sex, generally to a country where sex work is legal.

### Be Aware

#### Disease

HIV and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs) may be common among sex
workers. Some common STIs, such as gonorrhea, have become extensively drug-
resistant in some parts of the world. Make **sure you ALWAYS use protection
when having sex with a new partner.**

#### Legality

Sex tourism supports human trafficking (slavery), one of the largest criminal
industries in the world. Even if prostitution is legal in a country, human
trafficking, sex with a minor, and child pornography are **ALWAYS** crimes.
Millions of children around the world are victims of commercial sexual
exploitation. Children abused by sex tourists suffer not only sexual abuse but
also physical, emotional, and psychological abuse, as well as poverty and
homelessness. They suffer from health problems including addiction,
malnourishment, injuries, STIs and emotional trauma.

**Someone who engages in these activities in a foreign country can be
prosecuted under that county 's law while abroad and under US law after
returning to the United States.**

Although the age at which someone is considered a minor may vary by country,
federal law makes it a crime for US residents to engage in sexual or
pornographic activities with a child younger than 18 years anywhere in the
world. It is also illegal to travel abroad for the purpose of having sex with
a minor.

#### How to Prevent Trafficking

To combat trafficking and child sexual abuse, some international hotels and
other tourism services have voluntarily adopted a code of conduct that
includes training for employees and reporting of suspicious activities.
Tourist establishments supporting this initiative to protect children from sex
tourism are listed online. Providers and travelers who suspect child sexual
exploitation or other trafficking activities occurring overseas can report
tips anonymouslyâ¯by:

In the United States, the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children's
CyberTipline collects reports of child prostitution and other crimes against
children (toll-free at 800-843-5678).

Since 2003, when Congress passed the PROTECT Act, at least 8,000 Americans
have been arrested. The PROTECT Act strengthens the US government's ability to
prosecute and punish crimes related to sex tourism, including incarceration of
up to 30 years for acts committed at home or abroad. Cooperation of the host
country is required to open an investigation of criminal activity. For more
ways you can help, see the Department of State list of 15 ways to fight human
trafficking.

                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Using the Operation Predator smartphone app.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Calling the Homeland Security Investigations Tip Line (866-347-2423).
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ICE Submitting information online.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * HHS National Human Trafficking Hotline,
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * ACF National Human Trafficking Hotline

In the United States, the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children's
CyberTipline collects reports of child prostitution and other crimes against
children (toll-free at 800-843-5678).

Since 2003, when Congress passed the PROTECT Act, at least 8,000 Americans
have been arrested. The PROTECT Act strengthens the US government's ability to
prosecute and punish crimes related to sex tourism, including incarceration of
up to 30 years for acts committed at home or abroad. Cooperation of the host
country is required to open an investigation of criminal activity. For more
ways you can help, see the Department of State list of 15 ways to fight human
trafficking.

### More Information

Yellow Book: Sex & Travel

Traveler Factsheet: STDs

* * *

Page last reviewed: November 18, 2019

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                              * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                              * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

