https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/petsLink: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/pets    
                Description: Animal Importation, importation of animals, importation of animal products, Traveling with Pets    
                Keywords: Animal Importation, importation of animals, importation of animal products, Traveling with Pets    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Importation

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Traveling with Pets

Minus

Related Pages

![photo of a dog on an airplane](/importation/images/dog-bag.jpg)

_Photo Credit: Audilis Sanchez, CDC_

**Taking your dog or cat on a flight abroad? Make sure you have your pet 's
documents when traveling internationally and returning home to the United
States. Leave yourself plenty of time before the trip to take care of your
pet's required medical care and paperwork. Remember to start the process
early.**

### First Stop--Your Vet's Office

If you are traveling internationally, tell your veterinarian about your plans
as soon as possible. Together, you can make sure your pet meets the
requirements for your destination countryExternal and is healthy enough to
travel. Requirements may include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Blood tests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Vaccinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Microchips for identification

Airlines and countries often have different requirements, so make sure you
know what the specific ones are.

![photo of a veterinarian with a dog](/importation/images/doctor-with-dog.jpg)

Talk to your vet about your travel plans and your dog's rabies vaccination.
_Photo credit: David Heaberlin, CDC_

### Research How to Fly with Your Pet

Give yourself plenty of time to do your homework before your trip. A great
place to start is the Pet Travel websiteExternal of the US Department of
Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).

#### _Airlines_

Different airlines have different rules about whether and how a pet can
travel. Depending on the airline, your pet may be able to travel on your
flight either in the cabin or in the cargo hold. Confirm this ahead of time
with your airline.

On airlines that permit pets to travel, only small dogs and cats that can fit
in special carriers under the seat are allowed in the cabin. Their owners must
care for them during any layovers. Some airlines may not allow them in the
cabin and will transport them as cargo in a heated and ventilated hold. Cats
and dogs may travel and rest better this way, since it is quieter and darker,
according to the International Air Transport Association.External

![photo of a woman walking through airport with a
dog](/importation/images/flying-with-dog.jpg)

Research how to fly with your pet. _Photo credit: Misty Ellis, CDC_



Another way for your pet to travel is on a separate flight as an air cargo
shipment. If this is your preference, or a requirement based on your dog's
size or the destination country's rules, then get your pet used to the
shipping kennel ahead of time. Make sure the door latches securely to avoid
any mishaps in transit. Ask your veterinarian for advice about when to give
food and water. If a pet is traveling as an air cargo shipmentExternal, you
must make arrangements for pickup at the final destination.

**_Some US carriers don 't allow pets to be shipped between May and September,
the hottest months for animals to travel in the Northern Hemisphere. _**No
matter what time of year, safety is always a concern when pets travel by
airplane. If absolutely necessary for a dog or cat to travel in cargo, it must
be in a sturdy container with enough room to stand and sit, to turn around
normally while standing, and to lie down in a natural position. For more
information, visit the US Department of Agriculture pet travel
websiteExternal.

When waiting for a connecting flight, you may have to care for a pet traveling
with you in the cabin, while the airline staff or ground handlers care for a
pet traveling in cargo. Check with your airline(s) beforehand to see what is
required.

![photo of a woman checking arrivals and departures
screen](/importation/images/dog-flights.jpg)

Consider your pet's comfort when traveling. _Photo credit: Misty Ellis, CDC_

### Consider Your Pet's Comfort

Loading and unloading can be the most stressful part of travel for animals.
Consider these tips:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Get your pet used to its carrier before the flight.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Purchase flights with fewer connections or layovers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pick departure and arrival times to avoid extreme heat or cold. For example, planning a nighttime arrival to a hot destination may be better for your pet.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Consult with your veterinarian. The International Air Transport Association discourages the use of sedatives or tranquilizers because they could harm animals while in flight.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Walk your pet before leaving home and again before checking in.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * If your pet is allowed in the cabin, check in as late as possible to reduce stress.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * If your pet will be transported as cargo, check in early so it can go to the quiet and dimly lit hold of the plane.

![A CDC public health officer checks the rabies vaccination certificate of a
dog in a kennel just arrived into the United States. Photo credit to Derek
Sakris, CDC.](/ncezid/dgmq/images/dog-cage-small.jpg)

Meet the requirements for dogs entering the United States. _Photo credit:
Derek Sakris, CDC_

### Requirements for Dogs Arriving in the United States

Whether returning or coming to the United States, all dogs must appear
healthy. And if your dogs are coming from a high-risk country for rabies, they
must have valid rabies vaccination certificates to enter the United States.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dogs must be at least 12 weeks old to get the rabies vaccination.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * If this is your dog's first rabies vaccination, you will have to wait 28 days before traveling to allow the vaccine to take effect.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * If you're not sure or don't have proof your dog was vaccinated before, have your dog vaccinated; then wait 28 days before traveling.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * If your adult dog's rabies booster is current, you can travel without waiting 28 days.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Your dog's rabies vaccination certificate must be valid for the duration of your trip.

Some states may require other vaccinations and health certificates. Check with
your destination state's health departmentExternal before you leave on your
trip.

Some airlines, cities, or states restrict certain breeds, so be sure to check
before you travel.

The _US Department of Agriculture External_ has additional restrictions for
some dogs arriving in the United States, such as working dogs.

### Requirements for Cats Arriving in the United States

Cats don't need rabies vaccinations to enter the United States. However, most
states and many other countries require them for cats. Be sure to check your
destination's requirements and ask your veterinarian before traveling.

#### Other kinds of pets

If your pet is not a cat or dog, there may be different requirements. Some
animals, such as primates (monkeys and apes) or African rodents, won't be
allowed back into the United States. Even if they originally came from the
United States, they can't be brought back here as pets.

![photo of a dog at the beach](/importation/images/dog-beach.jpg)

With careful planning, your pet can stay healthy and safe while traveling.
_Photo credit: Audilis Sanchez, CDC_

### Illness or Death of a Pet During Travel

Despite all precautions, pets sometimes get sick or even die on an airplane.
Public health officials are required to make sure an animal didn't die of a
disease that can spread to people. They may have to do an animal autopsy or
conduct other tests, at your cost, to figure out the cause of death. The
animal's remains often cannot be returned to you after this testing.

### Think of Different Options

Make sure your pet is healthy enough to travel by air. If you have any doubts,
consider leaving your pet with a trusted friend, family member, or boarding
kennel during your trip, or taking another mode of transportation.

With careful planning, your pet will arrive both at its destination and return
home healthy and safe.

More Information

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Crate size, preparing pets for flight, feeding, shipping, and dealing with airlines: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * International Air Transport Association- Traveler's Pet CornerExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Animal Transportation AssociationExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * International Pet and Animal Transportation AssociationExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laws for importing pets into the United States: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * U.S. Department of AgricultureExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * National Agricultural LibraryExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * U.S. Fish & Wildlife ServiceExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * U.S. Department of StateExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * U.S. Department of Transportation External
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Questions about traveling with your pet: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * American Veterinary Medical AssociationExternal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Learn more about how to stay healthy while enjoying your pets 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC's Healthy Pets, Healthy People website

Page last reviewed: September 1, 2016

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Global
Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

home Importation

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bringing an Animal into the U.S.plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Dogsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Where is Your Dog Coming From?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Certificate Required Countries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Rabies Vaccination Certificate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Illegal Puppy Imports Uncovered
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Cats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Turtles, Snakes, and Lizards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Monkeys
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Civets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * African Rodents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bats
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Fish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Horses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Small Mammals and Non-African Rodents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Information for Zoos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bringing Animal Products into the United Statesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Bushmeat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling with Pets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Human Remains Importation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Internet Pet Adoption Scams
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laws and Regulationsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Dog Import Requirements 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Egypt Dog Banplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs: Dogs from Egypt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Nonhuman Primate (NHP) Import Requirementsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs: Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs: For Importers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * NHP Filovirus Testing Requirementsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs: NHP Filovirus Testing 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Human Remains Proposed Ruleplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FAQs: Human Remains Proposed Rule
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Entry Suspension Authority

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Import Permit Program (IPP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers' Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthy Pets Healthy People
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * United States-Mexico Public Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Quarantine and Isolation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Division of Global Migration and Quarantine

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

