https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/travel-to-cold-climatesLink: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/travel-to-cold-climates    
                Description: Travel to Cold Climates    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Syndicate

### Travel to Cold Climates

![Family walks in snow](/travel/images/cold-family-snow.jpg)

You don't have to be in an arctic or high-altitude environment to encounter
problems with the cold. Even in mild climates, humidity, wind, and rain can
produce cold-related injuries in temperatures as warm as 50°F (10°C).

### When traveling in cold climates

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Wear warm clothing in several loose layers.**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Wear a tightly woven, preferably wind-resistant coat or jacket; inner layers of light, warm clothing; mittens; hats; and scarves.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * In wet conditions, shoes should be waterproof and have good traction.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Wear safety equipment** to keep you warm and dry when engaging in adventure activities in cold weather or around cold water.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Stay dry** --wet clothing chills the body rapidly. Too much perspiration will increase heat loss, so remove extra layers of clothing whenever you feel too warm. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * **Do not ignore shivering.**  It's an important first sign that the body is losing heat. Persistent shivering is a signal to return indoors.

"Extreme cold" means cold temperatures drop well below normal for a region.
When temperatures are much lower than normal, heat can leave your body more
quickly. Heat loss can lead to serious health effects, like hypothermia and
frostbite.

### Hypothermia

Hypothermia is a core body temperature below 95°F (35°C). While hypothermia is
most likely at very cold environmental temperatures, it can occur even at cool
temperatures (around 50°F) if a person becomes chilled from rain, sweat, or
submersion in cold water.  Even in temperate climates, people can rapidly
become hypothermic in the water. Mild hypothermia can make you feel confused,
and you may not realize anything is wrong until it is too late. Being too cold
can also cloud your judgment and cause you to make mistakes, which can be
deadly.

Early symptoms of hypothermia include shivering, feeling tired, being clumsy,
and being confused. As your body loses more heat, the shivering may stop, your
skin may turn blue, the pupils of your eyes may expand, your pulse and
breathing may slow, and you may pass out. If you notice any of these signs,
take your temperature.  **If it is below 95 ° F, the situation is an emergency
--get medical attention immediately.**  
If immediate medical care is not available:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Move to a warm room or shelter.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Remove any wet clothing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Warm the center of the body first--chest, neck, head, and groin--using an electric blanket, if available. You can also use skin-to-skin contact under loose, dry layers of blankets, clothing, towels, or sheets.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Drink a non-alcoholic warm beverage. Warm beverages can help increase body temperature, but do not drink alcoholic beverages. Do not try to give beverages to an unconscious person with hypothermia.

### Frostbite

**Frostbite is a bodily injury caused by freezing that results in loss of
feeling and color in affected areas.**  It most often affects the nose, ears,
cheeks, chin, fingers, or toes. Frostbite can permanently damage the body, and
severe cases can lead to amputation. Modern clothing and equipment have
decreased the risk for adventure travelers, but frostbite still occurs after
accidents, as a result of poor planning, and in severe, unexpected weather.

Warning signs of frostbite include numbness or tingling, stinging, or pain
where you are most exposed to the cold. **If you detect symptoms of frostbite,
seek medical care.**

If immediate medical care is not available:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Move to a warmer room or shelter.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Remove any wet clothing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Warm the affected body part in warm water.

### Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Hypothermia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Infographic: "Avoid. Spot. Treat. Frostbite and Hypothermia"

* * *

Page last reviewed: December 12, 2018

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

