https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/last-minute-travelersLink: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/last-minute-travelers    
                Description: Last-Minute Travelers    
                Keywords: None    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this
reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information
about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.

Travelers' Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Syndicate

### Last-Minute Travelers

![man running through airport](/travel/images/man-rushing-in-airport.jpg)

If you are a last-minute business traveler, returning to your home country for
a family emergency, or traveling internationally on short notice for another
reason, you can still plan for safe and healthy travel.

### Pretravel Care

Even if you are leaving soon, a quick visit to a travel medicine provider can
help protect you at your destination. Ideally, you should see a health care
provider at least 4-6 weeks before your international trip to get needed
vaccines or medicines. But there may be options for getting the vaccines and
medicines you need, even if you're a last-minute traveler. Your doctor or
nurse will also counsel you on other ways to reduce your risk of illness or
injury during travel.

### Vaccines

The vaccines you need will depend on your destination and planned activities.
You can search CDC's Destination pages for a list of vaccines you might need
for your trip. Many travel vaccines require multiple shots or take time to
become fully effective. But some multiple-dose vaccines (like hepatitis A) can
still give you partial protection after just one dose. Some can also be given
on an "accelerated schedule," meaning doses are given in a shorter period of
time.

![woman getting injection](/travel/images/woman-injection.jpg)

Proof of yellow fever vaccination is required to enter some countries. This
proof is not valid until 10 days after you get the vaccine because of the time
it takes for the medicine to protect you, so you may need to change your
travel plans if you can't get the vaccine soon enough.

CDC recommends all travelers be up-to-date on routine vaccines, including
measles-mumps-rubella (MMR), diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis, varicella
(chickenpox), polio, and influenza. Talk to your doctor or nurse about what
vaccines are needed for your trip.

### Malaria Prevention

If there is a risk of malaria at your destination, your health care provider
may prescribe medicine to prevent malaria. Some drugs must be started 1--2
weeks before you go, while others only need to be started 1--2 days before you
go. Be sure to let your doctor or nurse know if you're leaving soon, so they
can prescribe the right medicine for you. You will still need to take steps to
prevent mosquito bites during travel, since malaria drugs are not 100%
effective and they don't protect against other diseases spread by mosquitoes
(like Zika, dengue, and chikungunya).

### Prevent Illness and Injury

![man spraying bug spray on arm](/travel/images/bugspray.jpg)

Not all diseases can be prevented with vaccines or pills. There are simple but
important precautions you should take to avoid getting sick abroad:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Wear EPA-registered insect repellent to prevent mosquito bites, which can spread serious diseases.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Reduce your exposure to germs by washing your hands often with soap and clean water (if available) or use hand sanitizer (made with at least 60% alcohol).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Be careful about what you eat and drink. Contaminated food or drinks can cause travelers' diarrhea and other diseases.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Avoid stray, wild, or frightened animals. In addition to the risk of rabies, all animal bites carry a risk of bacterial infection.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Pack a travel health kit with your health items and supplies, including your prescription and over-the-counter medicines.

Talk with your health care provider about other precautions you should take,
based on your destination and circumstances. If you're planning a trip on
short notice, don't put off making an appointment with a travel medicine
provider. Even if you're leaving tomorrow, you should still visit your doctor
or nurse to get needed medicine and health advice for a safe and healthy trip.

* * *

Page last reviewed: January 08, 2018

Content source: National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
(NCEZID)  
Division of Global Migration and Quarantine (DGMQ)

HomeTravelers Health

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Destinations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Find a Clinicexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Yellow Fever Vaccination Clinicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Notices
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Travel Advice and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Clinician Tools and Resourcesexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinical Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Yellow Fever Vaccine Course
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cholera Vaccine for Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pre-Travel Quick Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Think Travel Vaccine Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Traveler Adviceexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * After Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Animal Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Before You Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Blood Clots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Business Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cold Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Counterfeit Medicines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * COVID-19 and Cruise Ship Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * During Travel Tips
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fish Poisoning in Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Food and Water
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Getting Health Care Abroadexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ObtenciÃ³n de atenciÃ³n mÃ©dica en el extranjero
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * High Altitudes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Holiday Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hot Climates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Humanitarian Aid Workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Insurance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * International Adoption
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jet Lag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Last-Minute Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Long-Term Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Lunar New Year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mass Gatherings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Medical Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mental Health
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Motion Sickness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Natural Disasters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pack Smart
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Posters and Infographicsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevent Bug Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Recently in American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Going to American Tropics?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What's Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: Risky vs. Safer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Food and Water: What to Know
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Road Safety - 8 Steps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MERS Health Advisory poster
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MERS Pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Guide for Healthy Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Website Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound and Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Outbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Inbound Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: Enjoy Your Vacation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Zika: A CDC Guide for Travelers infographic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pregnant Travelers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Road Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Routine Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Senior Citizens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sex Tourism
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Spring Break Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * STDs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Study Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Summer Travel Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Sun Exposure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tick Bites
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel to the Extreme
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travel Vaccines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveler Survival Guide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling Abroad with Medicine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling with Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Traveling with Your Pet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers' Diarrhea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Chronic Illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Disability
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Travelers with Weakened Immune Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visiting Friends or Relatives
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Water Disinfection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Water Safety Abroad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mobile Apps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS Feeds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Travel Industry Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Research and Surveillance Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Disease Directoryexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Ebola Recommendations for Organizations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zika Travel Informationexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines for US Citizens and Residents Living in Areas with Zika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Contents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Chapter 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Introduction to Travel Health & the CDC Yellow Book
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Travel Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *  _Perspectives:_ Why Guidelines Differ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tables
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Maps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Figures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Boxes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Updates
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About the Yellow Bookexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * With Gratitude to Phyllis E. Kozarsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  * Frequently Asked Questionsexpand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Contact Us

##### File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Adobe PDF file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft PowerPoint file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft Word file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Microsoft Excel file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Audio/Video file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Apple Quicktime file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RealPlayer file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Text file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Zip Archive file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * SAS file
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * ePub file

**CONTACT CDC-INFO**

Have questions? We have answers. 1-800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) TTY:
888-232-6348

Email CDC-INFO

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Nondiscrimination

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer

###### Follow CDC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Recommend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Tweet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Post
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * RSS

###### CDC Media

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Listen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Watch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * eCards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * YouTube

TOP

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

