https://www.cdc.gov/funding/about-cdc-funding/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/funding/about-cdc-funding/index.html    
                Description: The Office of Financial Resources aims to provide exceptional customer service in the management of CDC    
                Keywords: Funding, PGO, Procurement and Grants Office, CDC funding    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Funding

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# About CDC Funding

Minus

Related Pages

## Acquisition vs. Assistance

Contracts acquire supplies and services for the agency, while grants assist
recipients in accomplishing a public purpose.

CDC provides two types of funding: acquisition and assistance.

**Acquisition** refers to purchasing supplies and services for CDC. These
mechanisms typically include contracts, purchase orders, and Inter-Agency
Agreements. Often "acquisition" and "contracts" are used interchangeably.

**Assistance** refers primarily to grants and cooperative agreements. These
financial assistance mechanisms help involve and engage public health
stakeholders, including state and local governments, in fulfilling CDC's
mission. Grants and cooperative agreements provide the means to transfer
federal monies, resources, technical assistance, and / or expertise to these
stakeholders in exchange for their contributions or to ensure their alignment
with federal goals and objectives. Often "assistance" and "grants" are used
interchangeably. In practice, there are significant differences between the
two. Cooperative agreements are used when CDC has substantial involvement in
the activities being funded, while grants are used when CDC has no need for
substantial involvement.

Acquisition vs. Assistance Type | Mechanism | Principal purpose | Primary
beneficiary | Is there a deliverable?  
---|---|---|---|---  
Acquisition | Contracts, Purchase Orders, and Inter-Agency Agreements |
Acquisition for the direct benefit or use of the federal government | Federal
Government | Yes  
Assistance | Grants and Cooperative Agreements | Transfer of money, property,
services, or anything of value to accomplish a public purpose of support | The
recipient (as a proxy for "the public") | No; however, grantees submit
progress and final reports  
  
![Grants.gov logo](/funding/images/Grants-Gov-Logo.png)

Page last reviewed: July 13, 2018

Content source: Office of Financial Resources (OFR)

home Funding

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About Our Office expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Role and Value to CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Determine Your Funding Eligibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding Profiles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * PPHF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Whatâs New

Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contracts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Finance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Grants

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

