https://www.cdc.gov/grants/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/grants/index.html    
                Description: The Centers for Disease and Control and Prevention (CDC) uses grants and cooperative agreements to fund research and non-research public health programs that advance the Agencyâs public health mission domestically and abroad.    
                Keywords: office of Grants Services, CDC grants, assistance, grant funding, Grants &amp; Cooperative Agreements    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Grants

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Grants

Minus

Related Pages

![Office of Financial Resources Fiscal Year 2019 Assistance
Snapshot](/grants/00_flexslider/new-slider/fy-2019-assistance-snapshot.jpg)

Fiscal Year 2019 Assistance Snapshot

pdf icon ![Webpage showing on a computer monitor titled applying for a
grant](/grants/00_flexslider/new-slider/how-to-apply.jpg)

How to Apply

![Grants Life Cycle has three major stages: pre-award, award, and post-
award.](/grants/00_flexslider/new-slider/grants-lifecycle-overview.png)

Learn more about CDC grants life cycle

![Office employees viewing printed graphs and
computers.](/grants/00_flexslider/new-slider/offfice-of-financial-
resource.jpg)

Office of Financial Resources

Welcome to CDC Grants

media iconLow Resolution Video

What's New - Grants

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19): Information for Applicants and Recipients of CDC Funding3/24/2020 3:55:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Office of Financial Resources FY 2019 Assistance Snapshot2/26/2020 3:00:00 PM

More

Flexibilities available to applicants and recipients of federal financial
assistance affected by COVID-19. For more information, please visit the CDC's
Grants Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) page.

The Centers for Disease and Control and Prevention (CDC) uses grants and
cooperative agreements to fund research and non-research public health
programs that advance the agency's public health mission domestically and
abroad to keep Americans safe and healthy where they work, live and play. In
fiscal year 2019, the Office of Grants Services (OGS) supported 5,010 grant
awards to 1,289 recipients. These awards generated 12,418 actions that placed
more than $5.9 billion into public health programs and research around the
world. OGS also published 108 new Notice of Funding Opportunities (NOFOs). To
learn more, please review our FY 2019 Assistance Snapshotpdf icon.

This site provides information about financial assistance resources at CDC.

stack icon

Welcome Packet

device icon

How to Apply

people icon

About CDC Grants

chart icon

Life Cycle Overview

paper icon

Already have a CDC Grant?

book icon

Federal Regulations and Policies

medical icon

Public Health Emergencies

Notice of Funding Opportunities

 **To access CDC 's latest grant and cooperative agreement opportunities:**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. Select the relevant _Opportunity Status_ , _Funding Instrument Type_ , _Eligibility_ , and _Category_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. In the _Agency_   field, first select the "+" next to _All Departments of Health and Human Services_ , then select the boxes next to the two _Centers for Disease Control and Prevention_   entries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. Review results and select the _Funding Opportunity #_   for more information

external iconVisit Grants.gov

![Grants.gov logo](/funding/images/Grants-Gov-Logo.png)

Page last reviewed: March 23, 2020

Content source: Office of Financial Resources (OFR)

homeGrants

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Grants Welcome Packet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How to Apply
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC Grantsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Funding Profiles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Life Cycle Overview
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Already have a CDC Grant?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * GrantSolutions for Grant Recipientsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grant Recipient Actions, Roles, Notifications, and Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Accessing Grants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Support and Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Responsibilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Grant Recipient Communications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Award Terms and Conditions, Federal Regulations and Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Additional Requirements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Public Health Emergenciesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19)plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Flexibilities Available to Applicants and Recipients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Temporary Reassignment of Personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * General Funding and Grants Frequently Asked Questions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Hurricane and Tropical Storms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Dictionary of Terms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Links
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Award Data

Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contracts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Finance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding

![how to apply for a grant](/grants/00_images/Grants-application-badge.png)
![Remember to keep your SAM registration active, Learn
more](/grants/00_images/SAM-badge.png)

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

