https://www.cdc.gov/finance/conference-spending/fy2019/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/finance/conference-spending/fy2019/index.html    
                Description: Learn more about how CDC reaches partners, grantees, and the general public in the Fiscal Year 2017 Report on CDC-Hosted Conferences.    
                Keywords: Business_Finance, travel expenses, Department of Health and Human Services, healthcare and human services providers, online workflow system, CDC headquarters, Report, office of Management and Budget, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Funding, Procurement, Grants, CDC funding    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Finance

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 Report on CDC-Hosted Conferences

January 31, 2020

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About the Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Description of the Report
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fiscal Year 2019 Summary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Related Material

## About the Report

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is one of the major
operating components of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), and
is recognized as the nation's premier health protection agency. CDC works 24/7
to protect America from health, safety and security threats, both foreign and
in the U.S. Whether diseases start at home or abroad, are chronic or acute,
curable or preventable, human error or deliberate attack, CDC fights disease
and supports communities and citizens to do the same.

Effective outreach to our partners, grantees, and the general public is
central to our mission. Our success is also contingent on our ability to
collaborate with tens of thousands of healthcare and human services providers,
scientific researchers, clinicians, advocates, and other key non-government
partners across the country and internationally. Our support and attendance at
conferences and other related meetings is critical for our researchers to
leverage and advance the biomedical, scientific, and public health mission of
CDC.

This report is submitted as required by the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) (Memorandum on Promoting Efficient Spending to Support Agency
Operationsexternal icon), dated May 11, 2012, which requires federal agencies
to report publicly on all agency-sponsored (hosted) conferences where the
expenses exceed $100,000.

 Top of Page

## Description of the Report

In compliance with OMB Memorandum M-12-12, this report includes:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information about conference expenses for FY 2019, as well as general information about conference activities throughout the year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * A description of all CDC-hosted conferences for FY 2019 where expenses associated with the conference exceeded $100,000, including: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The date of the conference
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The location of the conference
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * A brief explanation on how the conference advanced the mission of the agency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * A description of exceptional circumstances for conferences where net expenses exceeded $500,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The total expenses incurred by the agency for the conference
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * The total number of individuals whose travel expenses or other conference expenses were paid by the agency

 Top of Page

## Fiscal Year 2019 Summary

CDC continues to take positive steps in support of the agency's initiatives to
gain efficiencies in the use of appropriated funds for conferences and
meetings (as found in HHS's policy on promoting efficient spendingexternal
icon). At the forefront of these efforts is CDC's work to implement
improvements to conference management practices through the release of updated
training materials and resources.  
The following summarizes information about CDC-hosted conferences in FY 2019
that exceeded $100,000[1]:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * **Total number of conferences:** 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * **Total cost of the conferences:** $3,823,675
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * **Total number of attendees:** 4,020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * **Average cost per attendee:** $951
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * **Percent of conferences held locally near CDC headquarters in Atlanta, GA:** 88%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * **Percent of attendees traveling at CDC expense:** 25%

Related Material

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC FY 2019 Report on CDC-Hosted Conferences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC FY 2019 Report on Conference Spending
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC FY 2018 Report on CDC-Hosted Conferences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC FY 2018 Report on Conference Spending
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC FY 2017 Report on CDC-Hosted Conferences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC FY 2017 Report on Conference Spending
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC FY 2016 Report on CDC-Hosted Conferences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC FY 2016 Report on Conference Spending
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC FY 2015 Report on CDC-Hosted Conferences
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC FY 2015 Report on Conference Spending
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HHS FY 2014 Report on Conference Spending by Agencyexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HHS FY 2014 Report on Conferences Sponsored by HHSexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FY 2013 Report on Conferencesexternal icon

Top of Page

* * *

[1] Total estimated costs are based on readily available and known costs for
contractor support, venue, and audio-visual related expenses, as well as
registration fees, travel, and other miscellaneous costs.

![Grants.gov logo](/funding/images/Grants-Gov-Logo.png)

Page last reviewed: December 23, 2019

Content source: Office of Financial Resources (OFR)

homeFinance

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HHS Financial Reports
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pay.Gov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Conference Reportsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FY 2019 Report on CDC-Hosted Conferencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Report on Conference Spending
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FY 2018 Report on CDC-Hosted Conferencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Report on Conference Spending
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FY 2017 Report on CDC-Hosted Conferencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Report on Conference Spending
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FY 2016 Report on CDC-Hosted Conferencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Report on Conference Spending
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * FY 2015 Report on CDC-Hosted Conferencesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Report on Conference Spending
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Scientific Meeting Reportsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC-Hosted Meeting Reportsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FY 2019plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Report on Meeting Spending
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FY 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Report on Meeting Spending
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FY 2017plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Report on Meeting Spending
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Non-CDC-Hosted Meeting Reportsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FY 2019plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Report on Meeting Spending
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FY 2018plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Report on Meeting Spending
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * FY 2017plus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            * Report on Meeting Spending

Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contracts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Grants

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

