https://www.cdc.gov/contracts/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/contracts/index.html    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: office of Financial Resources, office of Acquisition Services, federal government, goods or services, contractor, contracts, life-cycle, life cycle overview, contracts opportunities, Opportunities, contracts resources, Procurement, Funding    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Contracts

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Contracts

Minus

Related Pages

![Office of Financial Resources Fiscal Year 2019 Acquisition
Snapshot](/contracts/00_flexslider/images-
flexslider-425x265/fy-2019-acquisition-snapshot.jpg)

Fiscal Year 2019 Acquisition Snapshot

pdf icon ![Access current CDC opportunities](/contracts/00_flexslider/images-
flexslider-425x265/cdc-opportunities.png)

Access current CDC opportunities

![The difference between contract types and
vehicles](/contracts/00_flexslider/images-flexslider-425x265/difference-
contract-types-vehicles.png)

Understand the difference between Contract Types and Contract Vehicles

![CDC and small business](/contracts/00_flexslider/images-
flexslider-425x265/cdc-small-business.png)

Learn more about CDC and Small Business

What's New - Contracts

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Office of Financial Resources FY 2019 Acquisition Snapshot2/26/2020 3:01:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Office of Financial Resources FY 2018 Acquisition Snapshot3/14/2019 12:34:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Key CDC Contracting staff to attend the National Contract Management Association World Congress Event in July 7/12/2018 9:02:00 AM

More

 **This site provides information about the use of contracts to acquire goods
and services for the use and benefit of the Centers for Disease and Control
and Prevention (CDC).**

CDC uses contracts to purchase goods and services such as supplies, vaccines,
Information Technology (IT), and equipment to advance the agency's public
health mission domestically and abroad to keep Americans safe and healthy
where they work, live and play. In FY 2019, the Office of Acquisition Services
(OAS) processed 10,609 contract actions. These contract actions totaled $5.7
billion supporting public health programs and research around the world. For
more information, visit our FY 2019 Acquisition Snapshotpdf icon.

All Visitors

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visit the Contracting Process page for more information on the contracts life cycle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visit the About CDC Contracts page for information on CDC's contracts and CDC's Office of Financial Resources (OFR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visit the CDC Funding website for information on CDC's funding.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visit the website for information on CDC's grant funding.

Potential and Existing CDC Contractors

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visit the Doing Business with CDC page for general information and key resources for bidding or proposing on CDC contracts. Information to support Small Businesses is also included!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visit the Contracting Opportunities page for information on accessing and applying for CDC contracting opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Visit the Resources page for access to policies and regulations and key links related to federal contracting

#### Contracts definition

Contracts refer to a mutually binding legal relationship obligating the seller
to furnish the supplies or services (including construction) and the buyer to
pay for them. It includes all types of commitments that obligate the
Government to an expenditure of appropriated funds and, except as otherwise
authorized, are in writing. [Read More]

In addition to bilateral instruments, contracts include (but are not limited
to) awards and notices of awards; job orders or task letters issued under
basic ordering agreements; letter contracts; orders, such as purchase orders,
under which the contract becomes effective by written acceptance or
performance; and bilateral contract modifications.When the federal government
issues a contract, it is agreeing to provide funds in exchange for the
delivery of goods or services from the contractor. Failure to perform and
achieve the promised results or product outlined in the contract can result in
legal action and financial consequences.

CDC awards both contracts and grants; the differences are defined below. Check
out CDC's Grants page for more information on CDC's grant funding. [Read Less]

### Contracts vs Grants

Contracts

![Contracts](/contracts/00_images/contracts_423x175.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * A binding agreement between a buyer and a seller to provide goods or services in return for consideration (usually monetary) to support the mission of CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Governed by Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Relatively inflexible around scope of work, budget, and other changes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Significant emphasis placed on delivery of results, product, or performance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Payment based on deliverables and milestones, generally
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Frequent reporting requirements, generally

Grants

![Grants](/contracts/00_images/Grants_423x175.jpg)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * A flexible instrument designed to provide money to support a public purpose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Governed by the terms of the grant agreement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Flexible around scope of work, budget, and other changes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diligent efforts are used in completing research and the delivery of results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Payment awarded in annual lump sum, generally
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Annual reporting requirements, generally

![Grants.gov logo](/funding/images/Grants-Gov-Logo.png)

Page last reviewed: February 26, 2020

Content source: Office of Financial Resources (OFR)

home Contracts

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contracting Process
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC Contracts expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC Contract Funding Allocations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contract Types
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Contract Vehicles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Acquisition Snapshots
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Doing Business with CDC expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * CDC and Small Business
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contracting Opportunities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contracting Resources

Related Topics

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Finance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Grants

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

