https://www.cdc.gov/mrsa/healthcare/index.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/mrsa/healthcare/index.html    
                Description: In healthcare settings, MRSA can cause severe infections.    
                Keywords: bloodstream infection, pneumonia, surgical site infection, sepsis, antibiotic resistance, prevention, mrsa in the blood, spread, prevention, treatment    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ (MRSA)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Healthcare Settings

Preventing the Spread of MRSA

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How is MRSA spread in healthcare settings?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How do you know if MRSA is the cause of an infection?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How common is MRSA?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Where can I find information about MRSA at hospitals near me?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Is MRSA an antibiotic resistance problem?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Can MRSA infections be prevented?

In healthcare facilities, such as a hospital or nursing home, MRSA can cause
severe problems including:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * bloodstream infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * pneumonia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * surgical site infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * sepsis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * death

How is MRSA spread in healthcare settings?

MRSA is usually spread by direct contact with an infected wound or from
contaminated hands, usually those of healthcare providers. Also, people who
carry MRSA but do not have signs of infection can spread the bacteria to
others (i.e., people who are colonized).

How do you know if MRSA is the cause of an infection?

The only way to know if MRSA is the cause of an infection is to perform a
culture (a laboratory test) of the bacteria. Obtaining bacteria to culture is
a procedure done by a healthcare provider.

Top of Page

How common is MRSA?

CDC is engaged in several short- and long-term MRSA surveillance (infection
tracking) projects that involve collaboration with health departments,
individual hospitals, and academic medical centers, among others.
Understanding the burden of MRSA infections--how much is occurring, where it
is happening, and how it is being spread - is essential for developing
effective prevention programs and measuring their impact.

Studies show that about one in three (33%) people carry _S. aureus_ bacteria
in their nose, usually without any illness. About two in every 100 people
carry MRSA. Although many people carry MRSA bacteria in their nose, most do
not develop serious MRSA infections.

Significant progress was made to reduce MRSA bloodstream infections in
healthcare from 2005-2012, when the rates of MRSA bloodstream infections
decreased by 17.1% each year. Declines in MRSA bloodstream infections slowed
from 2013-2016, when no significant change was detected.

Top of Page

Where can I find information about MRSA at hospitals near me?

Information about MRSA rates in hospitals across the United States is
available through the National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN), the nation's
most widely used healthcare-associated infection tracking system.

To see how CDC-funded state and local health departments, as well as academic
investigators, are working to prevent healthcare-associated infections (HAIs),
including MRSA, visit the Antibiotic Resistance Investment Map.

Top of Page

Is MRSA an antibiotic resistance problem?

Yes. _Staphylococcus aureus_ (staph) have become resistant to several
antibiotics, making MRSA and other types of resistant staph major antibiotic-
resistance problems. In CDC's landmark report, Antibiotic Resistance Threats
in the United States, 2013 Cdc-pdf[PDF - 114 pages], CDC listed MRSA as a
"serious threat." See the report and the U.S. National Strategy for Combating
Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria to combat antibiotic resistance.

Top of Page

Can MRSA infections be prevented?

Yes. Numerous studies, including a 2019 publication about Veterans Affairs
Medical Centers, demonstrate that MRSA prevention efforts can reduce
infections.

Successful MRSA prevention requires action both at the healthcare facility
level, among healthcare providers and healthcare leadership. See the
Strategies to Prevent Hospital-onset _Staphylococcus aureus_ Bloodstream
Infections in Acute Care Facilities.

Healthcare facilities can make prevention of MRSA infections a priority,
assess their relevant data, implement prevention actions and evaluate
progress.

Healthcare providers can follow current prevention recommendations for device-
and procedure- related infections, treat infections appropriately and rapidly
if they do occur, and educate patients about ways to avoid infection and
spread, and about early signs of sepsis.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: February 28, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare
Quality Promotion (DHQP)

home MRSA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * General Information expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For School & Daycare
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Coaches & Athletic Directors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Athletes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Factsheets & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthcare Settings expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Outpatient Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cleaning & Disinfection expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Athletic Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laundry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Photos expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laboratory Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What CDC is Doing

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

