https://www.cdc.gov/mrsa/community/environment/laundry.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/mrsa/community/environment/laundry.html    
                Description: To prevent the spread of MRSA, take care to properly wash clothing and linens that may be contaminated.    
                Keywords: laundry, clothing, towels, linens, detergent, bleach, how to clean, bleach bath for staph, clean, prevent mrsa spread    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link Skip directly to A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ (MRSA)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Laundry

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Effective Laundry Procedures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Proper Water Temperature
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Using Bleach for Laundry

MRSA can spread on laundry like sheets, towels, and clothing. Keep laundry
clean to prevent MRSA from spreading.

Effective Laundry Procedures

Routine laundry procedures, detergents, and laundry additives will all help to
make clothes, towels, and linens safe to wear or touch. If items have been
contaminated by infectious material (like blood or puss), they can be
laundered separately, but it is not absolutely necessary.

Proper Water Temperature

In general, wash and dry in the warmest temperatures recommended on the
clothing label. Hot water washing is not necessary to remove MRSA from
laundry. Read and follow the clothing and soap or detergent label
instructions. Water temperatures for household laundry depend on the type of
fiber or fabric of the clothing. Also, some laundry detergents are made to
clean best at certain temperatures. Not following instructions could damage
the clothing item or decrease the effectiveness of the detergent.

Top of Page

Using Bleach for Laundry

It is not necessary to use bleach for each load of laundry. Detergent alone
will make laundry clean and safe for wear and use. Use of bleach as a
disinfectant in laundering is optional, and not all fabrics are suitable for
bleach. Read the clothing label instructions.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: January 28, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare
Quality Promotion (DHQP)

home MRSA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * General Information expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For School & Daycare
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Coaches & Athletic Directors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Athletes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Factsheets & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthcare Settings expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Outpatient Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cleaning & Disinfection expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Athletic Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laundry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Photos expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laboratory Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What CDC is Doing

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

