https://www.cdc.gov/mrsa/healthcare/outpatient.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/mrsa/healthcare/outpatient.html    
                Description: Consider MRSA in differential diagnosis of skin and soft tissue infections.    
                Keywords: skin infection,  abscess,  treatment,  guidelines,  diagnosis,  symptoms,  doxycycline for staph,  spider bite,  mrsa cellulitis, MRSA (Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ (MRSA)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Outpatient Management

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Common Clinical Manifestations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Additional Resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Possible Therapy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Considering Antibiotics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Follow-Up Plan

CDC encourages clinicians to consider MRSA in the differential diagnosis of
skin and soft tissue infections (SSTIs) compatible with _S. aureus_
infections, especially those that are purulent (fluctuant or palpable fluid-
filled cavity, yellow or white center, central point or "head," draining pus,
or possible to aspirate pus with needle or syringe).

Common Clinical Manifestations

A patient's presenting complaint of "spider bite" should raise suspicion of an
_S. aureus_ infection.

Recent data suggest that MRSA as a cause of skin infections in the general
community remains at high probability.

The spectrum of disease caused by MRSA appears to be similar to that of
_Staphylococcus aureus_ in the community. SSTIs, specifically furuncles
(abscessed hair follicles or "boils"), carbuncles (coalesced masses of
furuncles), and abscesses, are the most frequently reported clinical
manifestations.

The role of MRSA in cellulitis without abscess or purulent drainage is less
clear since cultures are rarely obtained.

Guidelines

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Outpatient management of SSTIs in the era of community-associated MRSA. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Poster (Print Only) pdf icon[PDF - 164 KB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Factsheet (Print Only) pdf icon[PDF - 147 KB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Pocket Card (Print Only) pdf icon[PDF - 193 KB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Strategies for Clinical Managment of MRSA in the Community (2006) pdf icon[PDF - 308 KB]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinical Practice Guidelines by the IDSA for the Treatment of MRSA Infections in Adults and Children (2011)external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA)external icon

Top of Page

Additional Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Prevent Bacterial and Fungal Infections in Patients who Inject Drugs pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]

Top of Page

Possible Therapy

In the community, incision and drainage remains the primary therapy for these
purulent skin infections. Empiric antibiotic coverage for MRSA may be
warranted in addition to incision and drainage based on clinical assessment
(e.g., presence of systemic symptoms, severe local symptoms, immune
suppression, extremes of patient age, infections in a difficult to drain area,
or lack of response to incision and drainage alone).

Top of Page

Considering Antibiotics

Antibiotic treatment, if indicated, should be guided by the susceptibility
profile of the organism. Obtaining specimens for culture and susceptibility
testing is useful to guide therapy, particularly for those with more severe
infections and those who fail to respond adequately to initial management.

Top of Page

Follow-Up Plan

MRSA skin infections can develop into more serious infections. It is important
to discuss a follow-up plan with your patients in case they develop systemic
symptoms or worsening local symptoms, or if symptoms do not improve within 48
hours.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: June 26, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare
Quality Promotion (DHQP)

home MRSA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * General Information expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For School & Daycare
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Coaches & Athletic Directors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Athletes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Factsheets & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthcare Settings expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Outpatient Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cleaning & Disinfection expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Athletic Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laundry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Photos expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laboratory Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What CDC is Doing

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF file_external

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

