https://www.cdc.gov/mrsa/healthcare/inpatient.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/mrsa/healthcare/inpatient.html    
                Description: Consider MRSA in differential diagnosis of skin and soft tissue infections.    
                Keywords: skin infection,  abscess,  treatment,  guidelines,  diagnosis,  symptoms,  mrsa in the blood, MRSA (Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Methicillin-resistant _Staphylococcus aureus_ (MRSA)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Preventing Infections in Healthcare

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Contact Precautions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Prevention Strategies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Prevention Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MRSA Prevention for Healthcare Providers: Interactive case
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Putting a Stop to MRSA: Video
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Factsheets for Clinicians

Progress made to reduce MRSA infections in healthcare facilities has slowed.
People are at higher risk for MRSA infection when they

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * have surgery,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * have medical devices inserted in their body, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * use needles to inject drugs.

More action by healthcare providers and administrators--added to current CDC
recommendations for reducing the risk of staph infections and spread--can
prevent more staph infections in healthcare facilities and the community.

Contact Precautions

CDC recommends the use of Contact Precautions in inpatient acute care settings
for patients known to be colonized or infected with epidemiologically
important multidrug-resistant organisms (MDROs) including MRSA.

From 2005 to 2014, the overall estimated incidence of invasive MRSA infections
from normally sterile sites (i.e., blood, pleural fluid, etc.) in the United
States declined by 40% and the estimated incidence of invasive hospital-onset
MRSA infections declined by 65%. Interventions designed to decrease risk of
device and procedure-associated infections and interventions to reduce
transmission, like Contact Precautions and hand hygiene, both likely
contributed to these decreases. The relative contribution of Contact
Precautions in comparison to other interventions is unknown.

In the past 5 years, more than a dozen studies, review articles, and
editorials have sought to address whether Contact Precautions should continue
to be recommended for endemic MDROs like MRSA. The impact of discontinuing
Contact Precautions for MRSA-colonized or infected patients has been assessed
primarily in single-center studies using lower quality quasi-experimental
designs that have not identified changes in MRSA infection or acquisition
rates. These studies likely underestimate the impact of discontinuing Contact
Precautions, including the effect on downstream adverse events (e.g., post-
discharge infections).

Based on the current evidence, CDC continues to recommend the use of Contact
Precautions for MRSA-colonized or infected patients. CDC will continue to
evaluate the evidence on Contact Precautions as it becomes available. In
addition, CDC continues to work with partners to identify and evaluate other
measures to decrease transmission of MDROs in healthcare settings.

MRSA remains an important healthcare pathogen and the prevention of MRSA
infections is a priority for CDC. CDC estimates that MRSA is responsible for
more than 70,000 severe infections and 9,000 deaths per year.

Make preventing staph infections (MRSA and MSSA) a priority in healthcare
facilities:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * assess your facility's data,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * implement prevention actions, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * evaluate progress.

If a MRSA outbreak has occurred, contact your facility's infection prevention
department or your local/state health department.

Top of Page

Prevention Strategies

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Strategies to Prevent Hospital-onset _Staphylococcus aureus_ Bloodstream Infections in Acute Care Facilities

Top of Page

Prevention Guidelines

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Management of Multidrug-Resistant Organisms in Healthcare Settings (2006)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA)external icon

Top of Page

New Strategies to Prevent MRSA Infections in Your Hospital: Interactive Case

![MRSA Interactive Case](/mrsa/images/MRSAInteractiveCase.png)

Healthcare providers can complete this case to test their knowledge of
prevention strategiesexternal icon that can protect their patients from
serious staph infections.

Top of Page

Putting a Stop to MRSA: Video

![Video commentary](/mrsa/images/jj-mrsa-video.jpg)

Putting a Stop to MRSA: Active Detection and Isolationexternal icon Log In
required.

CDC Expert Commentary -Dr. John Jernigan reviews the latest evidence that
ending MRSA infection in hospitals is achievable.

Top of Page

Factsheets for Clinicians

![Two page information sheet on MRSA](/mrsa/images/1providerBrochure.jpg)

Information about MRSA Skin Infections (Print Only) pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]

Includes:  
- Treatment options  
- Outpatient management of skin and soft tissue infections  
- Role of decolonization

![One page fact sheet on MRSA](/mrsa/images/4providerHalfpage.jpg)

CDC Provides information about MRSA skin infections. (Print Only) pdf icon[PDF
- 1 page]

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: January 24, 2020

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of Healthcare
Quality Promotion (DHQP)

home MRSA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * General Information expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For School & Daycare
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Coaches & Athletic Directors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * For Athletes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Factsheets & Posters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthcare Settings expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Outpatient Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preventing Infections
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Cleaning & Disinfection expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Athletic Facilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laundry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Photos expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * MRSA Bacteria Photo 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laboratory Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What CDC is Doing

Get Email Updates

To receive email updates about this page, enter your email address:

Email Address

What's this?

Submit

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

