https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/mers/guidelines-lab-biosafety.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/mers/guidelines-lab-biosafety.html    
                Description: CDC Coronavirus: Coronaviruses are common throughout the world. They can infect people and animals. Five different coronaviruses can infect people and make them sick. They usually cause mild to moderate upper-respiratory illness.    
                Keywords: Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus,  MERS,  MERS-CoV,  coronavirus,  novel coronavirus,  SARS,  alpha coronavirus 229E,  alpha coronavirus NL63,  beta coronavirus OC43,  beta coronavirus HKU1,  SARS-CoV, Coronavirus [CoV]    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search __ Search Icon Close Icon

Ã Coronavirus

Coronavirus All CDC

Submit __

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidelines for Handling and Processing
Specimens Associated with Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-
CoV) â _Version 2_

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * General Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Specific Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinical Laboratory Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Packing, Shipping and Transport

To date, we don't fully understand the pathogenic potential and transmission
dynamics of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV). Until
more information becomes available, precautions should be taken in collecting
and handling specimens that may contain MERS-CoV. Timely communication between
clinical and laboratory staff is essential to minimize the risk incurred in
handling specimens from patients with possible MERS-CoV infection. Such
specimens should be labeled accordingly, and the laboratory should be alerted
to ensure proper specimen handling. General and specific biosafety guidelines
for handling MERS-CoV specimens are provided below.

For additional detailed instructions please refer to the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories (BMBL) - Fifth Edition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laboratory Biosafety Manual - Third Editionexternal icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Interim Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations for Hospitalized Patients with Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV)

##  General Guidelines (for working with potentially infectious materials)

Laboratory workers should wear personal protective equipment (PPE) which
includes disposable gloves, laboratory coat/gown, respirator, and eye
protection when handling potentially infectious specimens.

Acceptable respiratory protection devices include: a properly fit-tested,
NIOSH-approved filtering facepiece respirator (N-95 or higher level) or a
powered air-purifying respirator (PAPR) equipped with high-efficiency
particulate air (HEPA) filters. Accurate fit-testing is a key component of a
respiratory protection program (RPP) and will assist with effective respirator
use. An RPP includes medical clearance, training, fit-testing, and fit-
checking to ensure appropriate respiratory selection and use. To be effective,
respirators must provide a proper sealing surface on the wearer's face.
Personnel who cannot wear fitted respirators because of facial hair or other
fit limitations should wear loose-fitting hooded or helmeted PAPRs. See
detailed information on a respiratory protection programexternal icon.

Any procedure with the potential to generate fine-particulate aerosols (e.g.,
vortexing or sonication of specimens in an open tube) should be performed in a
Class II Biological Safety Cabinet (BSC). Appropriate physical containment
devices (e.g., centrifuge safety buckets; sealed rotors) should be used for
centrifugation. Ideally, rotors and buckets should be loaded and unloaded in a
BSC. Perform any procedures outside a BSC in a manner that minimizes the risk
of exposure to an inadvertent sample release.

After specimens are processed, decontaminate work surfaces and equipment with
appropriate disinfectants. Use any EPA-registered hospital disinfectant.
Follow manufacturer's recommendations for use-dilution (i.e., concentration),
contact time, and care in handling.

All disposable waste should be autoclaved.

 Top of Page

##  Specific Guidelines

### The following activities may be performed in BSL-2 facilities using
standard BSL-2 work practices:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pathologic examination and processing of formalin-fixed or otherwise inactivated tissues
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Molecular analysis of extracted nucleic acid preparations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Electron microscopic studies with glutaraldehyde-fixed grids
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Routine examination of bacterial and mycotic cultures
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Routine staining and microscopic analysis of fixed smears
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Final packaging of specimens for transport to diagnostic laboratories for additional testing. Specimens should already be in a sealed, decontaminated primary container.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Inactivated specimens (e.g., specimens in nucleic acid extraction buffer)

### The following activities involving manipulation of potentially infected
specimens should be performed as above and in a Class II BSC:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Aliquoting and/or diluting specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Inoculating bacterial or mycological culture media
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Performing diagnostic tests that do not involve propagation of viral agents in vitro or in vivo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nucleic acid extraction procedures involving potentially infected specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Preparation and chemical- or heat-fixing of smears for microscopic analysis

### The following activities must be performed in a BSL-3 facility using BSL-3
work practices:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MERS-CoV propagation in cell culture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Initial characterization of viral agents recovered in cultures of MERS-CoV specimens

### The following activities must be performed in Animal BSL-3 facilities
using Animal BSL-3 work practices:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Inoculation of animals for potential recovery of virus from MERS-CoV samples
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Protocols involving animal inoculation for characterization of putative MERS-CoV agents

 Top of Page

##  Clinical Laboratory Testing

Clinical laboratories performing routine hematology, urinalysis, and clinical
chemistry studies, and microbiology laboratories performing diagnostic tests
on serum, blood, or urine specimens should follow standard laboratory
practices, including Standard Precautions, when handling potential MERS-CoV
specimens. For additional information, see Biosafety in Microbiological and
Biomedical Laboratories (BMBL) - Fifth Edition (page 225).

##  Packing, Shipping and Transport

Packaging, shipping, and transport of specimens from suspect cases of MERS-CoV
infection must follow the current edition of the International Air Transport
Association (IATA) Dangerous Goods Regulationsexternal icon.

Follow shipping regulations for UN 3373 Biological Substance, Category B when
sending potential MERS-CoV specimens.

#### Resources

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Packaging Checklist, see Category B pdf icon[1 page] Saf-T-Pak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Packing Instructions 650 for UN 3373external icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      *                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         * Click on "Infectious substances" and there is an option to download the packing instructions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Labels for UN 3373 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * When using cold pack pdf icon[1 page] - Include the name and telephone number of the person who will be available during normal business hours who knows the content of the shipment (can be someone at CDC). Place the label on one side of the box and cover the label completely with clear tape (do not tape just the edges of the label).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * When using dry ice pdf icon[1 page] - Include the name and telephone number of the person who will be available during normal business hours who knows the content of the shipment (can be someone at CDC). Place the label on one side of the box and cover the label completely with clear tape (do not tape just the edges of the label).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Schematic for packaging, UN 3373 Category B pdf icon[1 page]

 Top of Page

Page last reviewed: August 2, 2019

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases

home MERS Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About MERS expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms & Complications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention & Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * People at Increased Risk for MERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MERS in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthcare Professionals expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interim Guidance for Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preparedness expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Provider Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Facility Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Prevention and Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Monitoring and Movement Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Home Care and Isolation or Quarantine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevent Spreading in Homes and Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Air Transport
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laboratories expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Testing for MERS-CoV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for Clinical Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lab Biosafety Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Related Materials expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Photos

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Coronavirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * SARS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

