https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/mers/hcp/monitoring-movement-guidance.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/mers/hcp/monitoring-movement-guidance.html    
                Description: See interim U.S. guidance for monitoring people potentially exposed to MERS-CoV, evaluating their intended travel, and applying movement restrictions.    
                Keywords: MERS, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, MERS COV, MERS monitoring patients, MERS monitor patients travel, MERS infection travel, MERS movement restrictions, MERS patient movement, Coronavirus [CoV]    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Interim U.S. Guidance for Monitoring and Movement of Persons with Potential
Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) Exposure

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Definitions Used
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recommendations Based on Exposure Risk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recommendations for Specific Groups and Settings

Printer friendly version pdf icon[15 pages]

**Released:** July 13, 2016

_Background._ First identified and reported in September 2012 as an agent
causing severe acute respiratory illness, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome
Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) has caused infections worldwide, including in the
United States. To date all reported cases have been linked directly or
indirectly to travel through, or residence in, countries in or near the
Arabian Peninsula*. The majority of cases have been reported from Saudi Arabia
where there is evidence for ongoing, sporadic introductions from animals
(e.g., camels) to humans, followed by both healthcare-related and limited
community human-to-human transmission.

_Purpose of guidance_. CDC has created this interim guidance for state and
local health jurisdictions to use to monitor people within the United States
(U.S.) potentially exposed to MERS-CoV and evaluate their intended travel,
including the application of movement restrictions when indicated (Table 1).
This guidance applies to people who are within the U.S. and have been exposed
to a confirmed MERS case or have been present in a setting in which MERS cases
occurred (e.g., hospital), either overseas or in the U.S. The guidance does
not apply to travelers entering the U.S. without known links to a confirmed
MERS case. Currently CDC and state health departments are not performing
enhanced risk assessment to screen travelers for MERS who are arriving in the
U.S. from the Arabian Peninsula*. This guidance provides public health
authorities and other partners with a framework for determining the
appropriate public health actions based on risk exposure and clinical
presentation. This interim guidance is based on the current context of lack of
ongoing MERS-CoV transmission in the U.S., and will be updated if the
epidemiology of MERS-CoV changes.

CDC continues to recommend that healthcare providers and health departments
throughout the U.S. be prepared to detect and manage cases of MERS. Healthcare
providers should continue to routinely ask their patients about their travel
history and healthcare facility exposure overseas and to consider a diagnosis
of MERS-CoV infection in people who meet the criteria for a person under
investigation (PUI). For information about the evaluation and testing of
patients for MERS-CoV infection, see CDC Guidance for Evaluating Persons Under
Investigation for MERS.

##  Definitions Used in this Guidance

**For exposure-level definitions, see Table 2 titled "Epidemiologic Risk
Factors to Consider when Evaluating a Person for Exposure to MERS-CoV".**

### Active monitoring

Active monitoring means that the state and/or local public health authority,
or healthcare facility, assumes responsibility for establishing regular
communication with potentially exposed individuals, including checking daily
to assess them for symptoms and fever, rather than relying solely on
individuals to self-monitor and report symptoms if they develop. The purpose
of active monitoring is to ensure that people with epidemiologic risk factors
( _high risk_ and _some risk_ - see Table 2) are identified, if they become
symptomatic, as soon as possible after symptom onset so that they can be
rapidly isolated and evaluated.

Active monitoring should consist, at minimum, of the potentially exposed
individual reporting daily to the public health authority (either in person or
by telephone). People being actively monitored for MERS should measure their
temperature twice daily and monitor themselves for symptoms. They should
immediately notify the public health authority or healthcare facility if they
develop any fever (measured temperature ≥100.4oF or subjective fever) or
respiratory symptoms consistent with MERS (e.g., cough, shortness of breath,
chest pain, sore throat). Temperature should be measured using a standard
thermometer (e.g., oral, tympanic, or noncontact). Fever might not be present
in some patients, such as those who are very young, elderly, immunosuppressed,
or taking certain medications (e.g., nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
(NSAIDs)). Healthcare professionals should use clinical judgement to guide
testing of patients in such situations. Other symptoms (e.g., muscle aches,
nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, headache, runny nose, fatigue)
might also occur in MERS patients, sometimes in the absence of the more common
MERS-related symptoms listed above; people under active monitoring should also
report these symptoms, and healthcare professionals should consider them in
decisions of public health actions based on the level of exposure risk and the
judgement of public health authorities.

### Self-Monitoring

Self-monitoring means that potentially exposed people check their own
temperature twice daily and monitor themselves for respiratory symptoms
consistent with MERS (e.g., cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, sore
throat). People who develop symptoms while under self-monitoring should
immediately self-isolate (separate themselves from others) and notify public
health authorities. If a person self-monitoring develops fever (measured
temperature ≥100.4oF or subjective fever) or respiratory symptoms they must
contact their local or state public health authority promptly so that the
public health authority can coordinate consultation and referral to a
healthcare provider for further evaluation. Fever might not be present in some
patients, such as those who are very young, elderly, immunosuppressed, or
taking certain medications (e.g., NSAIDs). Healthcare professionals should use
clinical judgement to guide testing of patients in such situations. Those who
are self-monitoring are not required to report daily to the public health
authority; they are required to report to the public health authority only if
symptoms develop, unlike those who are being actively monitored whom are
required to report daily.

###  Close contact

Close contact, for both community and healthcare exposures, is defined as
follows: a) being within approximately 6 feet (2 meters), or within the room
or care area, of a confirmed MERS case for a prolonged period of time (such as
caring for, living with, visiting, or sharing a healthcare waiting area or
room with, a confirmed MERS case) while not wearing recommended personal
protective equipment or PPE (e.g., gowns, gloves, NIOSH-certified disposable
N95 respirator, eye protection); or b) having direct contact with infectious
secretions of a confirmed MERS case (e.g., being coughed on), while not
wearing recommended personal protective equipment. See CDC's MERS Infection
Prevention and Control guidelines. Data to inform the definition of close
contact are limited; considerations when assessing close contact include the
duration of exposure (e.g., longer exposure time likely increases exposure
risk) and the clinical symptoms of the person with MERS (e.g., coughing likely
increases exposure risk). Special consideration should be given to those
exposed in healthcare settings. For detailed information regarding healthcare
personnel (HCP) please review the section _Healthcare personnel in U.S.
Healthcare Facilities with active MERS cases_ below. Transient interactions,
such as walking by a person with MERS, are not thought to constitute an
exposure; however, final determination should be made in consultation with
public health authorities. See Table 2 for more detailed information.

### Controlled movement

Controlled movement limits the movement of people. For individuals subject to
controlled movement, travel by long-distance commercial or public
transportation (e.g., aircraft, ship, bus, train) in the same conveyance as
members of the general public should not be allowed. If travel is allowed, it
must be in a conveyance separate from the general public, such as a private
chartered flight or private vehicle in which contact with other people is
appropriately limited, and must occur with arrangements for uninterrupted
active monitoring.

### Isolation

Isolation is defined as the separation or restriction of activities of an ill
person with a communicable disease from those who are well.

### Quarantine

Quarantine in general means the separation of a person or group of people
reasonably believed, or known, to have been exposed to, but who is/are not yet
symptomatic with, a communicable disease from others who have not been
exposed, to prevent the possible spread of the communicable disease.

### Use of Public Health Orders

Public Health Orders are legally enforceable directives issued under the
authority of a relevant federal, state, or local entity that, when applied to
a person or group, may place restrictions on the activities undertaken by that
person or group, potentially including movement restrictions, for the purposes
of protecting the public's health. The list of quarantinable communicable
diseases for which federal public health orders are authorized is defined by
Executive Order. Equitable and ethical use of public health orders includes
supporting people who sacrifice their individual liberties and freedoms for
the public good. Specifically, measures must be in place to provide shelter,
food, water and medical-related support to, and protect the dignity and
privacy of, these people. Thoughtful planning by public health authorities is
needed to implement public health orders properly.

Top of Page

##  Recommendations for Monitoring, Travel, and Other Public Health Actions
Based on MERS-CoV Exposure Risk

### General considerations

Federal communicable disease regulations, including those applicable to
isolation, quarantine, movement restrictions, and other public health orders,
apply principally to international travel into the United States and in the
setting of interstate movement. State and local authorities have primary
jurisdiction within their borders. Thus, CDC recognizes that state and local
jurisdictions may make decisions about isolation, other public health orders,
and active monitoring that impose a greater level of restriction than
recommended by federal guidance, and that decisions and criteria to use such
public health measures may differ by jurisdiction.

Active monitoring can be conducted on a voluntary basis or compelled by legal
order. Active monitoring and prompt follow-up must continue and be
uninterrupted if the person travels out of the jurisdiction performing active
monitoring. Inter-jurisdictional transfer of monitoring oversight may be
needed for people under active monitoring who travel interstate. Notification
of the ministry of health in the destination country is recommended for those
who travel internationally during the monitoring period. CDC requests
notification prior to interstate or international transfer of travelers for
whom CDC recommends controlled movement so as to ensure that travel occurs in
a manner that does not place others at risk.

Public health authorities can delegate to the healthcare facility or employer
(or acceptable program designated by the facility) the responsibility of
actively monitoring HCP. The healthcare facility would report daily to the
public health authority.

Federal public health travel restrictions (e.g., addition to the public health
"Do Not Board" list for commercial air travel) may be used to enforce
controlled movement. People subject to controlled movement should not use
local public transportation (e.g., bus, subway, ferry) unless they have
discussed it with, and received approval from, the local public health
authority. People undergoing active or self-monitoring who develop fever
**and/or** respiratory symptoms consistent with MERS potentially need a
medical evaluation (Table 1) and must immediately contact the local public
health authority who will coordinate self-isolation and medical evaluation by
clinical personnel. Public health authorities may recommend medical evaluation
for lower temperatures (<100.4oF) or other symptoms (e.g., muscle aches,
nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, headache, runny nose, or fatigue)
based on clinical judgement and the level of epidemiologic risk. Fever may not
be present in some patients, such as those who are very young, elderly,
immunosuppressed, or taking certain medications (e.g., NSAIDs). Healthcare
professionals should use clinical judgement to guide testing of patients in
such situations. It is important to note that some previous MERS cases have
exhibited protracted non-respiratory illness >1 week.

### Specific Guidance Based on Exposure Category

CDC recommends the following public health actions based on risk exposure and
symptom status **:**

####  Table 1: Summary of CDC Interim Guidance for Monitoring and Movement of
People Exposed to MERS-CoV

Summary of CDC Interim Guidance for Monitoring and Movement of People Exposed
to MERS-CoV Exposure category | Clinical criteria | Public Health Actions  
---|---|---  
High risk  
(see Table 2) | Fever OR respiratory symptoms consistent with MERS* |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptomatic person must immediately self-isolate and contact public health authorities, as instructed as part of monitoring protocol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptomatic HCP in this group must immediately self-isolate and should not report for work in the healthcare environment or see patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Public health authorities should conduct an assessment and coordinate medical evaluation at a healthcare facility as needed 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Public health authorities can consult CDC to assist with evaluation of persons under investigation for MERS by calling CDC's Emergency Operations Center at 770-488-7100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * If public health authorities determine that medical evaluation is needed, safe transportation must be arranged to an appropriate healthcare facility for medical evaluation for MERS and other potential causes of the person's symptoms; see guidance for evaluation of a person under investigation for MERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Public health orders may be used to ensure compliance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for safe ambulance transport of MERS patients can be adapted from Patient Transport guidance developed for SARS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Air travel is permitted only by air medical transport; Federal public health travel restrictions (Do Not Board) may be implemented as needed to enforce controlled movement. See guidance on Air Medical Transport
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * If medically evaluated and discharged with a diagnosis other than MERS, recommendations as outlined for asymptomatic people in this exposure category would apply  
Asymptomatic |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Active monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Controlled movement consisting of, at a minimum, restrictions on long-distance travel on commercial or public transportation in the same conveyance as members of the general public 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Federal public health travel restrictions (Do Not Board) may be implemented to enforce controlled movement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Public health orders may be considered to ensure compliance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * If long-distance travel is allowed, the conditions of travel must include: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Restriction to a conveyance separate from the general public in which close contact with other people can be appropriately limited
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Coordination with public health authorities at both origin and destination to ensure uninterrupted active monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Additional considerations and actions for HCP (e.g., work restrictions) might be indicated as outlined in CDC's MERS Infection Prevention and Control guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Public health authorities, based on a specific assessment of the individual's situation, will determine whether additional restrictions are appropriate  
Some risk  
(see Table 2) | Fever OR respiratory symptoms consistent with MERS* |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptomatic person must immediately self-isolate and contact public health authorities, as instructed as part of monitoring protocol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptomatic HCP in this group must immediately self-isolate and should not report for work in the healthcare environment or see patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Public health authorities should conduct an assessment and coordinate medical evaluation at a healthcare facility as needed 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Public health authorities can consult CDC to assist with evaluation of persons under investigation for MERS by calling CDC's Emergency Operations Center at 770-488-7100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * If public health authorities determine that medical evaluation is needed, safe transportation must be arranged to an appropriate healthcare facility for medical evaluation for MERS and other potential causes of the person's symptoms; see guidance for evaluation of a person under investigation for MERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Public health orders may be considered to ensure compliance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for safe ambulance transport of MERS patients can be adapted from Patient Transport guidance developed for SARS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Air travel is permitted only by air medical transport; federal public health travel restrictions (Do Not Board) may be implemented as needed to enforce controlled movement. See guidance on Air Medical Transport
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Public health authorities may delay or defer medical evaluation if concern for MERS is low because symptoms are mild or transient
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * If medical evaluation is deferred, self-isolation at home or another appropriate facility should continue with, at minimum, daily close monitoring by the public health authority until symptoms resolve. See CDC's Home Care guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * If medically evaluated and discharged with a diagnosis other than MERS, or if symptoms resolve, recommendations as outlined for asymptomatic people in this exposure category would apply  
Asymptomatic |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Active monitoring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No movement restrictions are recommended: no restrictions on travel, work, public conveyances, or congregate gatherings, except to ensure that monitoring (when needed) continues without interruption. Any travel should be coordinated with public health authorities to ensure uninterrupted active monitoring 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Person under monitoring must ensure the public health authorities knows how to contact them every day during the monitoring period and is aware of any travel plans.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Additional considerations and actions for HCP (e.g., work restrictions ) might be indicated as outlined in CDC's MERS Infection Prevention and Control guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Public health authorities, based on a specific assessment of the individual's situation, will determine whether additional restrictions are appropriate  
Low (but not zero) risk  
(see Table 2) | Fever AND respiratory symptoms consistent with MERS* |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptomatic person must immediately self-isolate and contact public health authorities or a healthcare provider, as instructed as part of monitoring protocol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * HCP with signs or symptoms of MERS must contact public health authorities who will coordinate with the facility's occupational health program or hospital epidemiologist for medical evaluation prior to returning to work
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Public health authorities, if contacted, should conduct an assessment to determine whether medical evaluation at a healthcare facility is needed 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Public health authorities can consult CDC to assist with evaluation of persons under investigation for MERS by calling CDC's Emergency Operations Center at 770-488-7100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * If public health authorities determine that medical evaluation is needed, safe transportation must be arranged to an appropriate healthcare facility for medical evaluation for MERS and other potential causes of the person's symptoms; see guidance for evaluation of a person under investigation for MERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Public health orders may be considered to ensure compliance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for safe ambulance transport of MERS patients can be adapted from Patient Transport guidance developed for SARS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Air travel is permitted only by air medical transport; federal public health travel restrictions (Do Not Board) may be implemented as needed to enforce controlled movement. See guidance on Air Medical Transport
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Public health authorities may delay or defer medical evaluation if concern for MERS is low because symptoms are mild or transient
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Those with mild symptoms not requiring hospitalization should follow the home isolation guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * If medically evaluated and discharged with a diagnosis other than MERS, or if symptoms resolve, recommendations as outlined for asymptomatic people in this exposure category would apply  
Asymptomatic |

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Self-monitoring except HCP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * For HCP, active monitoring for symptoms **or** signs of MERS. Working in the healthcare environment or seeing patients is allowed if HCP are under active monitoring and remain asymptomatic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No movement restrictions are recommended. No restrictions on travel, work, public conveyances, or congregate gatherings, except to ensure that monitoring (when needed) continues without interruption  
No identifiable risk  
(see Table 2) | Symptomatic (any) | Routine medical evaluation and management
of ill persons as needed  
Asymptomatic | No actions needed  
  
Show More

*Fever is either measured temperature >100.4oF or subjective fever. Note that fever may not be present in some patients, such as those who are very young, elderly, immunosuppressed, or taking certain medications (e.g., NSAIDs). Clinical judgement should be used to guide testing of patients in such situations. Respiratory symptoms consistent with MERS are cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, and sore throat. Medical evaluation may be recommended for lower temperatures (<100.4oF) or other symptoms (e.g., muscle aches, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain headache, runny nose, fatigue) based on assessment by public health authorities.

Abbreviations: healthcare personnel=HCP

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. **High Risk Exposure Category**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. **Symptomatic individuals in the _high-risk_ category** with fever **or** respiratory symptoms consistent with MERS must be assessed by clinical personnel, either in person or by telephone, taking into account the exposure risk and clinical presentation, to determine whether the symptom criteria for the category are met (see Table 1). People in the _high-risk_ category who meet the symptom criteria must immediately consult the state or local public health authorities who will coordinate medical evaluation at a healthcare facility, which may include laboratory testing for MERS-CoV infection, with appropriate infection control precautions in place.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. **Asymptomatic people in the _high-risk_ category **must undergo active monitoring until 14 days after the last potential exposure. People in this category are subject to controlled movement consisting of, at a minimum, restrictions on long-distance travel on commercial or public transportation (e.g., aircraft, ship, bus, train) in the same conveyance as members of the general public in order to avoid having these people in a situation where they could not easily separate themselves from others if they developed symptoms during travel; federal public health travel restrictions may be issued, as needed, to enforce controlled movement (see Table 1). Public health authorities might consider other restrictions based on assessment of the individual situation (e.g., excluding someone from public events or congregate gatherings if they cannot easily separate themselves from others if symptoms develop).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. **Healthcare personnel in the _high-risk_ category**, must undergo active monitoring (see Table 1). HCP in this category are subject to controlled movement consisting of, at a minimum, restrictions on long-distance travel on commercial or public transportation (e.g., aircraft, ship, bus, train) in the same conveyance as members of the general public. HCP who develop fever **or** respiratory symptoms consistent with MERS-CoV infection within 14 days after the last known contact with a MERS patient should be evaluated by a facility-designated clinician (e.g., occupational health services, emergency department). Symptomatic HCP in this group must immediately self-isolate and should not report for work in the healthcare environment or see patients. Additional considerations and actions for asymptomatic HCP (e.g., work restrictions) might be indicated as outlined in CDC's MERS Infection Prevention and Control guidelines.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. **_Some-risk_ Exposure Category**
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. **Symptomatic individuals in the _some-risk_ category** with fever **or** respiratory symptoms consistent with MERS must be assessed by clinical personnel, either in person or by telephone, taking into account the exposure risk and clinical presentation, to determine whether the symptom criteria for the category are met (see Table 1). People in the _some-risk_ category who meet the symptom criteria must immediately consult the state or local public health authorities. Public health authorities should conduct a detailed exposure assessment to determine if medical evaluation at a healthcare facility is needed; medical evaluation may be delayed or deferred if suspicion for MERS is low because symptoms are mild or transient. If it is determined that further medical evaluation is not needed immediately, the person should self-isolate at home or in a location approved by the public health authority, with close monitoring by the public health authority, until symptoms resolve. For more guidance please refer to CDC's MERS Home Care guidance.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. **Asymptomatic people in the _some-risk_ category **must undergo active monitoring until 14 days after the last potential exposure. People in this category do not require separation from others or restriction of movement within the community (see Table 1). For these individuals, CDC recommends that travel, including by commercial or public transportation, be permitted provided that they remain asymptomatic and active monitoring continues uninterrupted. No restrictions are recommended for travel, work, public conveyances, or congregate gatherings. Public health authorities might consider other restrictions based on assessment of the individual situation (e.g., excluding someone from public events or congregate gatherings if they cannot easily separate themselves from others if symptoms develop).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. **Healthcare personnel** **in the _some-risk_ category **must undergo active monitoring until 14 days after the last potential exposure. HCP who develop any signs (e.g., fever or cough) **or** symptoms (e.g., shortness of breath) of MERS-CoV infection within 14 days after the last known contact with a MERS patient should be evaluated by a facility-designated clinician (e.g., occupational health services, emergency department) regardless of their use of PPE. Symptomatic HCP in this group must immediately self-isolate and should not report for work in the healthcare environment or see patients. Additional considerations and actions for asymptomatic HCP (e.g., work restrictions) might be indicated as outlined in CDC's MERS Infection Prevention and Control guidelines.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. **_Low- (but not zero)_ Exposure Category **
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1. **Symptomatic individuals in the _low- (but not zero) risk_ category** with fever **and** respiratory symptoms consistent with MERS must be assessed by clinical personnel, either in person or by telephone, taking into account the exposure risk and clinical presentation, to determine whether the symptom criteria for the category are met (see Table 1). For those in the _low- (but not zero) risk_ categories, public health authorities should conduct a detailed exposure assessment to determine if medical evaluation at a healthcare facility is needed; medical evaluation may be delayed or deferred if suspicion for MERS is low because symptoms are mild or transient.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2. **Asymptomatic people in the _low- (but not zero) risk_ category **must self-monitor until 14 days after the last potential exposure and seek healthcare if symptoms develop. If symptoms develop, they should call ahead to their healthcare provider and mention their recent travel or exposure. No restrictions are recommended for travel, work, public conveyances or congregate gatherings.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3. **For healthcare personnel in the _low- (but not zero) risk_ category** who will continue to engage in direct patient care, active monitoring is recommended (see Table 1); while HCP do not have an increased risk of developing disease themselves, the increased level of monitoring is justified because of the risk of transmission to patients in the work setting who are more likely to develop severe disease due to underlying medical conditions or advanced age. There are no travel restrictions for this group. If symptoms of illness develop, any healthcare personal in the _low-(but not zero)_ risk category under active monitoring must immediately stop working and contact their local or state public health authorities so that so that immediate isolation and clinical assessment can be coordinated.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4. **People** **in the _no identifiable risk_ category **do not need monitoring or restrictions unless these are indicated because of a diagnosis of, or exposure to, a communicable disease other than MERS (see Table 1).

### For All Risk Categories

Public health orders may be considered if necessary to ensure compliance with
isolation and medical evaluation. Federal public health travel restrictions
may be issued if there is reasonable belief that the person poses a public
health threat during travel. If medical evaluation results in a person being
discharged with a diagnosis other than MERS, monitoring and/or movement
restrictions will continue as outlined for asymptomatic people based on the
person's exposure risk category until 14 days after the last potential
exposure.

Top of Page

##  Recommendations for Specific Groups and Settings

###  Healthcare personnel in U.S. healthcare facilities with active MERS cases

For the purposes of risk exposure to MERS-CoV, HCP refers to all people, paid
and unpaid, working in healthcare settings whose activities potentially place
them at risk for exposures to a patient with MERS. Examples of such activities
include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * those that require direct contact with patients or their respiratory secretions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * presence in the patient's room or immediate patient-care environment, such as in a triage or examination room, or other potentially contaminated areas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * handling respiratory secretions, including soiled medical supplies and medical waste, or potentially contaminated equipment or environmental surfaces

While body fluids other than respiratory secretions have not been implicated
in transmission of MERS-CoV, unprotected contact with other body fluids should
also be considered as putting HCP at potential risk, until further data are
available. HCP with no direct patient contact and no entry into active patient
management areas are not considered to have a risk of exposure to MERS-CoV,
(i.e., are considered to have _no identifiable risk_ ). Clinical laboratory
personnel who use appropriate PPE and follow biosafety precautions (see CDC's
MERS Lab Biosafety Guidelines) in a laboratory setting while handling
specimens potentially containing MERS-CoV, are also considered to have no
identifiable risk. However, laboratory personnel who perform any procedure
with the potential to generate fine-particulate aerosols (particles with a
diameter of 2.5 mm or less) outside a class II biosafety cabinet would be
considered to have _low- (but not zero_ ) _risk_ and should self-monitor. To
date there have been no reports of laboratory-acquired MERS-CoV infections.
Note that HCP who are collecting specimens directly from patients should
adhere to infection control recommendation including wearing the recommended
PPE during the collection period as outlined in CDC's Infection Prevention and
Control Recommendations.

HCP who are exposed to patients with MERS or their respiratory secretions
while wearing appropriate PPE are considered to have _low- (but not zero)
risk_ of exposure (Table 2). However, although considered _low- (but not zero)
risk_ , CDC recommends that public health authorities actively monitor these
HCP because of their risk of transmission to patients in the work setting who
are more likely to develop severe disease due to underlying medical conditions
or advanced age. As long as those HCP, who will continue to engage in direct
patient care, undergo active monitoring and remain asymptomatic, they may
continue to perform their normal job duties. Active monitoring can be
conducted by the hospital institution in coordination with the public health
authorities, or solely by the public health authority. There are no
recommended travel restrictions for this group. Review and approval of work,
travel, or use of commercial or public transportation is not indicated or
recommended for such HCP, except to ensure that active monitoring continues
without interruption. However, if people under active monitoring wish to
travel out of their state of jurisdiction, they must notify the appropriate
public health authorities so active monitoring can be transferred to the
appropriate public health jurisdiction or continue to be conducted by the
original jurisdiction following notification to the receiving jurisdiction.

HCP who have unprotected exposures to patients with MERS or their respiratory
secretions ( _high or some_ risk) might be subject to additional restrictions
by the local public health authorities or their employer, including
consideration of a furlough from work in a healthcare facility or other
healthcare setting, telework, and/or the potential use of public health
orders, until 14 days after the last potential exposure.

### Modifications to guidance if there is MERS-CoV transmission to healthcare
personnel or patients in a U.S. healthcare facility

If MERS-CoV transmission to HCP or patients is identified in a U.S. facility,
exposure levels for other HCP and patients in the facility should be
reassessed. If transmission is the result of a known exposure (e.g., HCP not
wearing PPE when having patient contact), the HCP involved in the event would
be elevated immediately to the _some_ risk category; the other HCP in the
facility who wore PPE correctly and are determined to be uninvolved would
remain in the _low-(but not zero)_ risk category (Table 2).

However, if no known exposure and no systematic infection control problems
(e.g., breach in PPE use by an individual) are identified as the cause of
transmission among the infected staff or patients, special actions need to be
taken. First, all HCP involved in MERS patient care would be elevated
immediately to the  _some_ risk category regardless of whether they wore PPE
correctly, as this indicates an elevated risk for other HCP caring for MERS
patients in that facility (Table 2). In certain circumstances these
individuals might be subject to additional restrictions, including
consideration of a furlough from work in a healthcare facility or other
healthcare setting, and/or the potential use of public health orders, until 14
days after the last potential exposure. Second, the following procedures
should be conducted: (1) review the infection control practices to identify
potential deficiencies, (2) correct any identified deficiencies which might
include re-training HCP in job- and/or task-specific procedures including
appropriate infection control practices. Following remediation, if care of
MERS patients resumes, exposed HCP in the affected facility that were
considered to be the _some_ risk exposure category would return to the _low-
(but not zero)_ risk category under active monitoring. Healthcare-related
personnel not engaged in direct patient care, (e.g., lab staff, housekeeping)
can self-monitor. HCP are considered to be in the _low- (but not zero)_ risk
category if their first MERS patient-care activities occur after remediation
and training. For more information see CDC's Interim Infection Prevention and
Control Recommendations for Hospitalized Patients with MERS-CoV.

### Travelers on public or commercial conveyances

#### Crew members

If a crew member on a commercial or public conveyance, such as an airplane or
ship, is under monitoring due to potential MERS-CoV exposure and is not
subject to controlled movement, then the crew member is also not subject to
occupational restriction and may continue to work during the monitoring
period.

#### Travelers who were on an airplane with a person with symptomatic MERS

If a confirmed case of MERS is identified in a recent airplane traveler who is
determined to have been symptomatic during travel, each traveler seated within
2 rows of the person with MERS, and any others onboard who may have had
extensive interaction with this person or were exposed to the person's
respiratory secretions, should be assessed individually for close contact.
This assessment should include consideration of the clinical symptoms, and
proximity and duration of exposure. For instance a travel companion or person
sitting on an airplane next to a confirmed case of MERS may be considered a
close contact. These travelers should be managed according to the risk level,
with self-monitoring at a minimum for those seated within 2 rows of the person
with MERS; public health authorities may choose to conduct daily or
intermittent active monitoring of these people. Travelers (passengers and
crew) seated more than 2 rows from the person with MERS who had no other
potential close contact with this person are considered to have _no
identifiable risk_ ; no monitoring or movement restrictions are recommended
for these people.

#### End of Infectious Period for People with Confirmed MERS

For people with confirmed MERS-CoV infection, isolation and movement
restrictions are removed upon determination by public health authorities that
the person is no longer considered to be infectious. A confirmed case of MERS
is considered to no longer be infectious after two respiratory specimens
(preferably lower respiratory tract) collected 24 hours apart are confirmed
negative by the CDC rRT-PCR MERS-CoV assay, and the patient has clinical
improvement.

#### Justification for Recommendations

Active monitoring is justified for all people in the _high-_ or _some_ -
_risk_ category based on a reasonable belief that exposure may have occurred.
For HCP in the _low- (but not zero) risk_ category who will continue to engage
in direct patient care, active monitoring for symptoms/signs of MERS is
recommended; while HCP do not have an increased risk of developing disease
themselves, the increased level of monitoring is justified because of the risk
of transmission to patients in the work setting who are more likely to develop
severe disease due to underlying medical conditions or advanced age.

Additional restrictions, such as use of public health orders, may be warranted
if a person potentially exposed to MERS-CoV fails to comply with public health
recommendations or requirements. Such noncompliance could include refusal to
participate in a public health assessment or failure to adhere to the terms of
active monitoring, if indicated. Without such an assessment, public health
authorities may be unable to determine if an individual has been exposed to,
or has signs or symptoms consistent with, MERS. Medical evaluation may be
required, and isolation orders may be issued, for travelers from regions with
MERS-CoV transmission who refuse to cooperate with a public health assessment
and appear ill.

Top of Page

####  Table 2: Epidemiologic Risk Factors to Consider when Evaluating a Person
for Exposure to MERS-CoV**

Risk exposure categories apply only to individuals who provide history of a
known exposure risk, such as contact with a confirmed MERS patient or presence
in a setting in which MERS cases occurred (e.g., hospital) either overseas or
in the U.S. Currently CDC and state health departments are not performing
enhanced risk assessment to screen travelers for MERS who are arriving in the
U.S. from the Arabian Peninsula*.

**Categories that pertain particularly to healthcare personnel (HCP) are
highlighted in yellow.**

Table 2: Epidemiologic Risk Factors to Consider when Evaluating a Person for
Exposure to MERS-CoV Epidemiologic risk factors  
(Apply until 14 days after last potential exposure) | Exposure category |
Monitoring for MERS  
---|---|---  
Conducting or being present during a procedure likely to generate higher
concentrations of respiratory aerosols (e.g., cough-generating procedures,
bronchoscopy, sputum induction, intubation, extubation) on a patient with
confirmed MERS without using the recommended PPE. | High | Active monitoring  
Close contact with a person with confirmed MERS while the person was
symptomatic (see definitions of close contact) without wearing appropriate
PPE. | Some | Active monitoring  
HCP with unprotected exposure (without PPE) to a MERS patient (not a high-risk
exposure). | Some | Active monitoring  
HCP without a known unprotected exposure in a facility, who are caring for a
MERS patient in a facility where HCP transmission to HCP or another patient
has occurred without an identified breach in infection control. | Some |
Active monitoring  
Laboratory processing of blood, serum, or respiratory samples from a person
with MERS while not wearing appropriate PPE or without using standard
biosafety precautions. For example performing any procedure (e.g. vortexing,
centrifuging) with the potential to generate fine-particulate aerosols
(particles with a diameter of 2.5 mm or less) outside a class II biosafety
cabinet. | Low (but not zero) | Self-monitoring  
Having provided healthcare while using the recommended PPE to a person with
confirmed MERS while the person was symptomatic. This includes direct patient
care or contact with respiratory secretions (e.g., clinical laboratory or
housekeeping personnel). | Low (but not zero) | If engaged in direct patient
care, active monitoring. If not engaged in direct patient care, self-
monitoring.  
Having traveled on an aircraft seated WITHIN 2 ROWS of a person with confirmed
MERS who was symptomatic during travel, but having no exposures assessed as
close contact. Examples of close contact include travel companions, assisting
crew, assisting HCP. | Low (but not zero) | Self-monitoring  
Having traveled on an aircraft seated MORE THAN 2 ROWS from a person with
confirmed MERS who was symptomatic during travel and having no exposures
assessed as close contact. Examples of close contact include, travel
companions, assisting crew, assisting HCP. | No identifiable risk | None  
Potential exposure that occurred more than 14 days prior. | No identifiable
risk | None  
Contact with a person with MERS before his or her symptoms began. | No
identifiable risk | None  
Transient interactions that do not meet the close contact definition, such as
walking by a person with MERS. | No identifiable risk | None  
HCP with no direct patient contact and no entry into active patient management
areas. | No identifiable risk | None  
Clinical laboratory personnel who use appropriate PPE and follow biosafety
precautions in a laboratory setting while handling specimens containing MERS-
CoV. | No identifiable risk | None  
  
***** Countries considered in the Arabian Peninsula and neighboring include:
Bahrain; Iraq; Iran; Israel, the West Bank, and Gaza; Jordan; Kuwait; Lebanon;
Oman; Qatar; Saudi Arabia; Syria; the United Arab Emirates (UAE); and Yemen.

**Criteria including exposure risks for the evaluation and testing of patients
for MERS-CoV infection can be found in the CDC Guidance for Evaluating Persons
Under Investigation for MERS.

__Top of Page

View Page In:pdf icon PDF [406K]

Page last reviewed: August 2, 2019

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases

home MERS Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About MERS expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms & Complications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention & Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * People at Increased Risk for MERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MERS in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthcare Professionals expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interim Guidance for Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preparedness expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Provider Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Facility Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Prevention and Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Monitoring and Movement Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Home Care and Isolation or Quarantine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevent Spreading in Homes and Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Air Transport
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laboratories expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Testing for MERS-CoV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for Clinical Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lab Biosafety Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Related Materials expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Photos

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Coronavirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * SARS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

