https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/mers/hcp/home-care.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/mers/hcp/home-care.html    
                Description: Learn how to implement home care and isolation or quarantine of people who do not require hospitalization for MERS-CoV infection.     
                Keywords: MERS, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, MERS COV, MERS home care isolation, MERS isolation, MERS quarantine, Coronavirus [CoV]    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search __ Search Icon Close Icon

Ã Coronavirus

Coronavirus All CDC

Submit __

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Implementing Home Care and Isolation or Quarantine of People Not Requiring
Hospitalization for MERS-CoV

Minus

Related Pages

This interim guidance is for staff at local and state health departments,
infection prevention and control professionals, healthcare providers, and
healthcare workers who are coordinating the home care and isolation1 or
quarantine2 of people who are confirmed to have, or being evaluated for, MERS-
CoV infection (see Case Definitions). The interim guidance is based on what is
currently known about viral respiratory infections and MERS-CoV. CDC will
update this interim guidance as needed.

People who are confirmed to have, or being evaluated for, MERS-CoV infection
and do not require hospitalization for medical reasons may be cared for and
isolated in a residential setting after a healthcare professional determines
that the setting is suitable. Providers should contact their state or local
health department to discuss home isolation, home quarantine, or other
measures for close contacts and for patients who test positive for MERS-CoV,
and to discuss criteria for discontinuing any such measures. See Interim U.S.
Guidance for Monitoring and Movement of Persons with Potential MERS Exposure,
and Interim Guidance for Health Professionals for more information.

## Assess the Suitability of the Residential Setting for Home Care

In consultation with state or local health department staff, a healthcare
professional should

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * assess whether the residential setting is suitable and appropriate for home care;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * assess whether the patient is capable of adhering to precautions that will be recommended as part of home care or isolation (respiratory hygiene, hand hygiene, etc.); and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * contact their local or state health department to notify them that the residential setting has been determined to be suitable for home care and that hospital discharge is planned.

## Provide Guidance for Precautions to Implement during Home Care

A healthcare professional should

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * provide CDC's interim guidance for Preventing MERS-CoV from Spreading to Others in Homes and Communities to the person confirmed to have, or being evaluated for, MERS-CoV infection, and to the caregiver and household members; and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * contact their state or local health department to discuss criteria for discontinuing any such measures.

 Top of Page

* * *

###  Footnotes

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. Isolation is defined as the separation or restriction of activities of an ill person with a contagious disease from those who are well.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. Quarantine is defined as the separation or restriction of movement of well persons who might have been exposed to a communicable disease while determining if they become ill.

### References

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Memish ZA, Zumla AI, Al-Hakeem RF et al. Family cluster of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus infections. _N Engl J Med_ , 2013, 368(26):2487-94.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Mailles A, Blanckaert K, Chaud P et al. First cases of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) infections in France, investigations and implications for the prevention of human-to-human transmission, France, May 2013. _Euro Surveill_ , 2013, 18(24).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Hijawi B, Abdallat M, Sayaydeh A et al. Novel coronavirus infections in Jordan, April 2012: epidemiological findings from a retrospective investigation. _Eastern Mediterranean Health Journal_ , 2013, 19(Supplement 1):S12-18.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Health Protection Agency (HPA) UK Novel Coronavirus Investigation Team. Evidence of person-to-person transmission within a family cluster of novel coronavirus infections, United Kingdom, February 2013. _Euro Surveill_ , 2013, 18(11):20427.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guery B, Poissy J, el Mansouf L et al. Clinical features and viral diagnosis of two cases of infection with Middle East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus: a report of nosocomial transmission. _Lancet_ , 2013, 381(9885):2265-72.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Assiri A, McGeer A, Perl TM et al. Hospital Outbreak of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus. _N Engl J Med_ , 2013, (Epub ahead of print).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Omrani AS, Matin MA, Haddad Q et al. A family cluster of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus infections related to a likely unrecognized asymptomatic or mild caseexternal icon. _International Journal of Infectious Diseases_ , (2013).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * World Health Organization. MERS-CoV summary and literature updateexternal icon - as of 09 July 2013. WHO, 2013.

 Top of Page

Related Pages

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Guidance for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Interim Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations for Hospitalized Patients with Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV)

Page last reviewed: March 24, 2020

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases

home MERS Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About MERS expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms & Complications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention & Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * People at Increased Risk for MERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MERS in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthcare Professionals expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interim Guidance for Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preparedness expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Provider Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Facility Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Prevention and Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Monitoring and Movement Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Home Care and Isolation or Quarantine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevent Spreading in Homes and Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Air Transport
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laboratories expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Testing for MERS-CoV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for Clinical Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lab Biosafety Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Related Materials expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Photos

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Coronavirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * SARS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

