https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/mers/photos.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/mers/photos.html    
                Description: MERS-CoV photos show how coronaviruses get their name - each virion is surrounded by a     
                Keywords: MERS, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, MERS COV, MERS photos, why is it called coronavirus, coronavirus halo, MERS coronavirus, Coronavirus [CoV]    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# MERS-CoV Photos

Minus

Related Pages

Coronaviruses derive their name from the fact that under electron microscopic
examination, each virion is surrounded by a "corona," or halo. This is due to
the presence of viral spike peplomers emanating from each proteinaceous
envelope.

![An electron micrograph showing spherical particles within the cytoplasm of
an infected cell.](/coronavirus/mers/images/MERS-cytoplasm.jpg)

An electron micrograph of a thin section of MERS-CoV, showing the spherical
particles within the cytoplasm of an infected cell.

Source: Cynthia Goldsmith/Azaibi Tamin

![Negative stain electron microscopy image when Human serum antibodies react
with MERS-CoV-infected Vero cells.](/coronavirus/mers/images/MERS-infected-
vero-cells.jpg)

Human serum antibodies react with MERS-CoV-infected Vero cells, indicating the
patient has been infected with MERS-CoV.

Source: Jennifer L. Harcourt

![Novel coronavirus particles as seen by negative stain electron microscopy.
Virions contain characteristic club-like projections emanating from the viral
membrane.](/coronavirus/mers/images/nCoV-1.jpg)

MERS-CoV particles as seen by negative stain electron microscopy. Virions
contain characteristic club-like projections emanating from the viral
membrane.

Source: Cynthia Goldsmith/Maureen Metcalfe/Azaibi Tamin

![Novel coronavirus particles as seen by negative stain electron microscopy.
Virions contain characteristic club-like projections emanating from the viral
membrane.](/coronavirus/mers/images/nCoV-2.jpg)

MERS-CoV particles as seen by negative stain electron microscopy. Virions
contain characteristic club-like projections emanating from the viral
membrane.

Source: Cynthia Goldsmith/Maureen Metcalfe/Azaibi Tamin

![Negative stain electron microscopy shows a novel coronavirus particle with
club-shaped surface projections surrounding the periphery of the particle, a
characteristic feature of coronaviruses.](/coronavirus/mers/images/nCoV-thin-
section-lrg.jpg)

An electron micrograph of a thin section of MERS-CoV, showing the spherical
particles and cross-sections through the viral nucleocapsid.

Source: Maureen Metcalfe/Azaibi Tamin

![Negative stain electron microscopy shows a novel coronavirus particle with
club-shaped surface projections surrounding the periphery of the particle, a
characteristic feature of coronaviruses.](/coronavirus/mers/images/nCoV-
lg.jpg)

Negative stain electron microscopy shows a MERS-CoV particle with club-shaped
surface projections surrounding the periphery of the particle, a
characteristic feature of coronaviruses.

Source: Cynthia Goldsmith/Azaibi Tamin

Page last reviewed: August 2, 2019

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases

home MERS Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About MERS expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms & Complications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention & Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * People at Increased Risk for MERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MERS in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthcare Professionals expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interim Guidance for Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preparedness expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Provider Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Facility Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Prevention and Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Monitoring and Movement Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Home Care and Isolation or Quarantine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevent Spreading in Homes and Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Air Transport
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laboratories expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Testing for MERS-CoV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for Clinical Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lab Biosafety Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Related Materials expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Photos

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Coronavirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * SARS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

