https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/mers/risk.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/mers/risk.html    
                Description: People who may be at increased risk for MERS include recent travelers from the Arabian Peninsula, people with exposure to camels, and more.    
                Keywords: MERS, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, MERS in the U.S., people at risk for MERS, travel to Arabian peninsula MERS, MERS camels, MERS travelers, who is at risk for MERS, Coronavirus [CoV]    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search __ Search Icon Close Icon

Ã Coronavirus

Coronavirus All CDC

Submit __

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# People Who May Be at Increased Risk for MERS

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Recent Travelers from the Arabian Peninsula
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Close Contacts of an Ill Traveler from the Arabian Peninsula
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Close Contacts of a Confirmed Case of MERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthcare Personnel Not Using Recommended Infection-Control Precautions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * People with Exposure to Camels

## Recent Travelers from the Arabian Peninsula

If you develop a fever* and symptoms of respiratory illness, such as cough or
shortness of breath, within 14 days after traveling from countries in or near
the Arabian Peninsula**, you should call ahead to a healthcare provider and
mention your recent travel.

## Close Contacts of an Ill Traveler from the Arabian Peninsula

If you have had close contact*** with someone within 14 days after they
traveled from a country in or near the Arabian Peninsula**, and the traveler
has/had fever* and symptoms of respiratory illness, such as cough or shortness
of breath, you should monitor your health for 14 days, starting from the day
you were last exposed to the ill person.

If you develop fever* and symptoms of respiratory illness, such as cough or
shortness of breath, you should call ahead to a healthcare provider and
mention your recent contact with the traveler.

## Close Contacts of a Confirmed Case of MERS

If you have had close contact*** with someone who has a confirmed MERS-CoV
infection, you should contact a healthcare provider for an evaluation. Your
healthcare provider may request laboratory testing and outline additional
recommendations, depending on the findings of your evaluation and whether you
have symptoms. You most likely will be asked to monitor your health for 14
days, starting from the day you were last exposed to the ill person. Watch for
these symptoms:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fever*. Take your temperature twice a day.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Coughing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Shortness of breath
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Other early symptoms to watch for are chills, body aches, sore throat, headache, diarrhea, nausea/vomiting, and runny nose.

If you develop symptoms, call ahead to your healthcare provider as soon as
possible and tell them about your possible exposure to MERS-CoV so the office
can take steps to keep other people from getting infected. Ask your healthcare
provider to call the local or state health department.

 Top of Page

## Healthcare Personnel Not Using Recommended Infection-Control Precautions

Healthcare personnel should adhere to recommended infection control measures,
including standard, contact, and airborne precautions, while managing
symptomatic close contacts, persons under investigation, and patients who have
probable or confirmed MERS-CoV infections. They should also use recommended
infection control precautions when collecting specimens.

Healthcare personnel who had close contact*** with a confirmed case of MERS
while the case was ill, if not using recommended infection control precautions
(e.g., appropriate use of personal protective equipment), are at increased
risk of developing MERS-CoV infection. These individuals should be evaluated
and monitored by a healthcare professional with a higher index of suspicion.
For more information, see Interim Infection Prevention and Control
Recommendations for Hospitalized Patients with Middle East Respiratory
Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV).

## People with Exposure to Camels

Direct contact with camels is a risk factor for human infection with MERS-CoV.

The World Health Organization has posted a general precaution for anyone
visiting farms, markets, barns, or other places where animals are present.
Travelers should practice general hygiene measures, including regular
handwashing before and after touching animals, and avoiding contact with sick
animals. Travelers should also avoid consumption of raw or undercooked animal
products. For more information, see WHO's Frequently Asked Questions on MERS-
CoV. (Should people avoid contact with camels or camel products? Is it safe to
visit farms, markets, or camel fairs?)external icon

The World Health Organization considers certain groups to be at high risk for
severe MERS. These groups include people with diabetes, kidney failure, or
chronic lung disease, and people who have weakened immune systems. The World
Health Organization recommends that these groups take additional precautions:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Avoid contact with camels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Do not drink raw camel milk or raw camel urine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Do not eat undercooked meat, particularly camel meat

*Fever may not be present in some patients, such as those who are very young, elderly, immunosuppressed, or taking certain medications. Clinical judgement should be used to guide testing of patients in such situations.

**Countries considered in and near the Arabian Peninsula include: Bahrain;
Iraq; Iran; Israel, the West Bank, and Gaza; Jordan; Kuwait; Lebanon; Oman;
Qatar; Saudi Arabia; Syria; the United Arab Emirates (UAE); and Yemen.

***Close contact is defined as a) being within approximately 6 feet (2
meters), or within the room or care area, of a confirmed MERS case for a
prolonged period of time (such as caring for, living with, visiting, or
sharing a healthcare waiting area or room with, a confirmed MERS case) while
not wearing recommended personal protective equipment or PPE (e.g., gowns,
gloves, NIOSH-certified disposable N95 respirator, eye protection); or b)
having direct contact with infectious secretions of a confirmed MERS case
(e.g., being coughed on) while not wearing recommended personal protective
equipment. See CDC's Interim Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations
for Hospitalized Patients with MERS. Data to inform the definition of close
contact are limited; considerations when assessing close contact include the
duration of exposure (e.g., longer exposure time likely increases exposure
risk) and the clinical symptoms of the person with MERS (e.g., coughing likely
increases exposure risk). Special consideration should be given to those
exposed in healthcare settings. For detailed information regarding healthcare
personnel (HCP) please review CDC's Interim U.S. Guidance for Monitoring and
Movement of Persons with Potential Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV)
Exposure. Transient interactions, such as walking by a person with MERS, are
not thought to constitute an exposure; however, final determination should be
made in consultation with public health authorities.

 Top of Page

Page last reviewed: August 2, 2019

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases

home MERS Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About MERS expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms & Complications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention & Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * People at Increased Risk for MERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MERS in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthcare Professionals expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interim Guidance for Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preparedness expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Provider Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Facility Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Prevention and Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Monitoring and Movement Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Home Care and Isolation or Quarantine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevent Spreading in Homes and Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Air Transport
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laboratories expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Testing for MERS-CoV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for Clinical Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lab Biosafety Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Related Materials expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Photos

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Coronavirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * SARS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

