https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/mers/interim-guidance.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/mers/interim-guidance.html    
                Description: See MERS interim guidance for evaluating  patients, close contacts &amp; clusters, reporting PUIs, testing specimens, and infection control.     
                Keywords: MERS, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, MERS COV, MERS evaulate patients, MERS clusters, MERS reporting, MERS PUIs, MERS testing specimens, MERS infection control, MERS interim guidance, Coronavirus [CoV]    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search __ Search Icon Close Icon

Ã Coronavirus

Coronavirus All CDC

Submit __

For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics

Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS)

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Interim Guidance for Healthcare Professionals

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Patients in the U.S. Who Should Be Evaluated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Evaluation and Management of Close Contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clusters of Respiratory Illness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laboratory Testing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infection Control

Healthcare providers should maintain awareness of the need to detect patients
who should be evaluated for Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus
(MERS-CoV) infection; this requires clinical judgment as information on modes
of transmission of MERS-CoV and clinical presentation of MERS continues to
evolve.

The spectrum of illness due to MERS-CoV infection is not fully defined.
Symptoms of MERS-CoV infections are typically non-specific. At hospital
admission, common signs and symptoms include fever, chills/rigors, headache,
non-productive cough, dyspnea, and myalgia. Other symptoms can include sore
throat, coryza, sputum production, dizziness, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea,
and abdominal pain. Atypical presentations including mild respiratory illness
without fever and diarrheal illness preceding development of pneumonia have
been reported. Clinical judgment should be used to guide testing of patients
for MERS-CoV infection.

##  Patients in the U.S. Who Should Be Evaluated for MERS-CoV Infection

Healthcare providers should evaluate patients in the U.S. for MERS-CoV
infection if they meet the following criteria, defined as a Person Under
Investigation (PUI)

Clinical features and epidemiologic risk Clinical Features | & | Epidemiologic
Risk  
---|---|---  
**Severe illness**  
Fever1 _and_ pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome (based on
clinical or radiological evidence) | and | A history of travel from countries
in or near the Arabian Peninsula2 within 14 days before symptom onset, _or_
close contact3 with a symptomatic traveler who developed fever1 and acute
respiratory illness (not necessarily pneumonia) within 14 days after traveling
from countries in or near the Arabian Peninsula2.

_- or -_

A member of a cluster of patients with severe acute respiratory illness (e.g.,
fever1 and pneumonia requiring hospitalization) of unknown etiology in which
MERS-CoV is being evaluated, in consultation with state and local health
departments in the US.  
  
**Milder illness**  
Fever1 _and_ symptoms of respiratory illness (not necessarily pneumonia; e.g.,
cough, shortness of breath) | and | A history of being in a healthcare
facility (as a patient, worker, or visitor) within 14 days before symptom
onset in a country or territory in or near the Arabian Peninsula2 in which
recent healthcare-associated cases of MERS have been identified.  
Fever1 _or_ symptoms of respiratory illness (not necessarily pneumonia; e.g.,
cough, shortness of breath) | and | Close contact3 with a confirmed MERS case
while the case was ill.  
  


The above criteria serve as guidance for testing; however, patients should be
evaluated and discussed with public health departments on a case-by-case basis
if their clinical presentation or exposure history is equivocal (e.g.,
uncertain history of health care exposure).

## Confirmed Case

A confirmed case is a person with laboratory confirmation of MERS-CoV
infection. Confirmatory laboratory testing requires a positive PCR on at least
two specific genomic targets or a single positive target with sequencing on a
second.

## Probable Case

A probable case is a PUI with absent or inconclusive laboratory results for
MERS-CoV infection who is a close contact3 of a laboratory-confirmed MERS-CoV
case. Examples of laboratory results that may be considered inconclusive
include a positive test on a single PCR target, a positive test with an assay
that has limited performance data available, or a negative test on an
inadequate specimen.

## Reporting Persons Under Investigation (PUIs)

**Update July 2017:**

To simplify the process, MERS reporting to CDC has been updated:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is no longer asking for state and local health departments to submit MERS short forms for PUIs who test negative for MERS-CoV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * State and local health departments must still submit _all_ CDC MERS-CoV rRT-PCR assay test results (e.g., negative, positive, equivocal) via the LRN. Any MERS case detected in the U.S., and any PUI with equivocal or positive MERS test results must still be immediately reported to CDC as currently recommended.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC staff will continue to remain available for epidemiologic and laboratory consultation for MERS. Please contact eocreport@cdc.gov with any questions about MERS PUIs or MERS-CoV testing, or call the CDC Emergency Operations Center (EOC) at 770-488-7100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MERS PUI short forms are still available to use as tools when investigating PUIs.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Download PDF file pdf icon[1 page]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Download Microsoft Word file word icon[1 page]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * NOTE: CDC may revise optional submission of the MERS short form for PUIs who test negative for MERS-CoV in the future if circumstances change, such as increasing worldwide MERS cases or if a MERS case is identified in the U.S.

 Top of Page

##  Evaluation and Management of Close Contacts

### CLOSE CONTACTS OF A CONFIRMED CASE

As part of investigation of confirmed cases, in consultation with a state or
local health department, a person who develops fever1 or symptoms of
respiratory illness within 14 days following close contact3 with a confirmed
case of MERS while the case was ill should be evaluated for MERS-CoV
infection.

Other contacts of the ill person, such as community contacts or contacts on
conveyances (e.g., airplane, bus), may be considered for evaluation in
consultation with state and local health departments.

Clinicians should be aware that the spectrum of illness due to MERS-CoV
infection is not fully defined. Although most reported cases have had severe
acute lower respiratory illness, mild infections, and infections with no
apparent symptoms, have been reported. Additionally, in some cases, diarrhea
preceded respiratory symptoms. Other early symptoms have included headache,
chills, myalgia, nausea/vomiting, and diarrhea. Symptomatic contacts should be
evaluated and, depending on their clinical history and presentation,
considered for MERS-CoV testing. This includes rRT-PCR testing of lower/upper
respiratory and serum specimens, and possibly MERS-CoV serology, if symptom
onset was more than 14 days prior.

Close contacts3 who are ill and do not require hospitalization for medical
reasons may, in consultation with the state or local health department, be
cared for and isolated in their home while being evaluated for MERS-CoV
infection. (Isolation is defined as the separation or restriction of
activities of an ill person with a contagious disease from those who are
well). The possible benefit of home quarantine or other measures, such as
wearing masks, is uncertain due to lack of information about transmissibility
from persons with mild, or no apparent, symptoms. Contacts with no apparent
symptoms who test positive by PCR, especially in respiratory specimens or
serum, likely pose a risk of transmission, although the magnitude and
contributing factors are unknown. Providers should contact their state or
local health department to discuss home isolation, home quarantine or other
measures for close contacts, especially for patients who test positive, and to
discuss criteria for discontinuing any such measures.

Recommendations may be modified as more data become available. For more
information, see CDC's Interim Home Care and Isolation or Quarantine Guidance
for MERS-CoV.

### CLOSE CONTACTS OF A PUI

Evaluation and management of close contacts3 of a PUI should be discussed with
state and local health departments. Close contacts of a PUI should monitor
themselves for fever and respiratory illness and seek medical attention if
they become ill within 14 days after contact; healthcare providers should
consider the possibility of MERS in these contacts.

 Top of Page

##  Clusters of Respiratory Illness in Which MERS-CoV Infection Should Be
Considered

Clusters5 of patients with severe acute respiratory illness (e.g., fever and
pneumonia requiring hospitalization) without recognized links to a case of
MERS-CoV infection or to travelers from countries in or near the Arabian
Peninsula2 should be evaluated for common respiratory pathogens.4 If the
illnesses remain unexplained, providers should consider testing for MERS-CoV,
in consultation with state and local health departments.

 Top of Page

##  Laboratory Testing

To date, limited information is available on the pathogenic potential and
transmission dynamics of MERS-CoV. To increase the likelihood of detecting
MERS-CoV infection, CDC recommends collecting multiple specimens from
different sites at different times after symptom onset. For more information,
see CDC's Interim Guidelines for Collecting, Handling, and Testing Clinical
Specimens from PUIs for MERS-CoV. For a PUI, CDC strongly recommends testing a
lower respiratory specimen (e.g., sputum, broncheoalveolar lavage fluid, or
tracheal aspirate), a nasopharygeal/oropharygeal (NP/OP) swab, and serum, via
the CDC MERS-CoV rRT-PCR assay. Lower respiratory specimens are preferred, but
collecting nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal (NP/OP) specimens, and serum, are
strongly recommended depending upon the length of time between symptom onset
and specimen collection. If symptom onset was more than 14 days prior, CDC
also strongly recommends additional testing of a serum specimen via the CDC
MERS-CoV serologic assay.

Almost all state health department laboratories are approved for MERS-CoV
testing using CDC's MERS-CoV rRT-PCR assay. Contact your state health
department to notify them of PUIs and to request MERS-CoV testing. If your
state health department is unable to test, contact CDC's EOC at 770-488-7100.



##  Infection Control

Appropriate infection-control measures should be used while managing patients,
including specimen collection from PUIs and probable or confirmed MERS cases.
For CDC guidance on MERS-CoV infection control in healthcare settings, see
Interim Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations for Hospitalized
Patients with MERS-CoV. For CDC interim guidance to prevent MERS-CoV from
spreading in homes and communities in the U.S., see Interim Home Care and
Isolation or Quarantine Guidance for MERS-CoV.

 Top of Page

* * *

### Footnotes

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. Fever may not be present in some patients, such as those who are very young, elderly, immunosuppressed, or taking certain medications. Clinical judgement should be used to guide testing of patients in such situations.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. Countries considered in the Arabian Peninsula and neighboring include: Bahrain; Iraq; Iran; Israel, the West Bank and Gaza; Jordan; Kuwait; Lebanon; Oman; Qatar; Saudi Arabia; Syria; the United Arab Emirates (UAE); and Yemen.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. Close contact is defined as a) being within approximately 6 feet (2 meters), or within the room or care area, of a confirmed MERS case for a prolonged period of time (such as caring for, living with, visiting, or sharing a healthcare waiting area or room with, a confirmed MERS case) while not wearing recommended personal protective equipment or PPE (e.g., gowns, gloves, NIOSH-certified disposable N95 respirator, eye protection); or b) having direct contact with infectious secretions of a confirmed MERS case (e.g., being coughed on) while not wearing recommended personal protective equipment. See CDC's Interim Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations for Hospitalized Patients with MERS. Data to inform the definition of close contact are limited; considerations when assessing close contact include the duration of exposure (e.g., longer exposure time likely increases exposure risk) and the clinical symptoms of the person with MERS (e.g., coughing likely increases exposure risk). Special consideration should be given to those exposed in healthcare settings. For detailed information regarding healthcare personnel (HCP) please review CDC Interim U.S. Guidance for Monitoring and Movement of Persons with Potential Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV) Exposure. Transient interactions, such as walking by a person with MERS, are not thought to constitute an exposure; however, final determination should be made in consultation with public health authorities.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4. Examples of respiratory pathogens causing community-acquired pneumonia include influenza A and B, respiratory syncytial virus, _Streptococcus pneumoniae_ , and _Legionella pneumophila_.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5. In accordance with the World Health Organization's guidance for MERS-CoV, a cluster is defined as two or more persons with onset of symptoms within the same 14 days period, and who are associated with a specific setting such as a classroom, workplace, household, extended family, hospital, other residential institution, military barracks, or recreational camp. See WHO's Interim Surveillance Recommendations for Human Infection with Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus pdf icon[5 pages]external icon.

 Top of Page

Related Pages

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinical Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Infection Prevention and Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Home Care and Isolation or Quarantine Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for Laboratories
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Expert Commentary Video: Be on the Lookout for MERS-CoVexternal icon. 5:26 minutes, RELEASED Jun 2014  
Editorial Collaboration with Medscape

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC Expert Commentary: Interim Guidance for Health Professionalsexternal icon. Jun 2014  
Editorial Collaboration with Medscape

Page last reviewed: August 2, 2019

Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases
(NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases

home MERS Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About MERS expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms & Complications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Transmission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Prevention & Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * People at Increased Risk for MERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FAQs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MERS in the U.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Healthcare Professionals expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Interim Guidance for Health Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Features
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Preparedness expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Provider Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Healthcare Facility Checklist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Infection Prevention and Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Monitoring and Movement Guidance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Home Care and Isolation or Quarantine expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prevent Spreading in Homes and Communities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Air Transport
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Laboratories expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Laboratory Testing for MERS-CoV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Guidelines for Clinical Specimens
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lab Biosafety Guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Guidance for Travel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Related Materials expand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Photos

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Coronavirus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * SARS

![CDC, Medscape from WebMD](/coronavirus/mers/images/medscape-logo.gif)

![CDC Commentary: Be on the Lookout for MERS-
CoV](/coronavirus/mers/images/MERS-CoV-video.jpg)

CDC Commentary: Be on the Lookout for MERS-CoVexternal  
CDC's Dr. Susan Gerber provides an update on MERS, including when to evaluate
patients, how to collect appropriate specimens, and infection control.  
_Running Time 5:26 mins  
Date Released 06/23/2014_

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

SAS stats

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

