https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/me-cfs-children/factsheet-healthcare-professional.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/me-cfs-children/factsheet-healthcare-professional.html    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: chronic fatigue syndrome myalgic encephalomyelitis fatigue post-exertional malaise orthostatic intolerance dizziness lightheadedness sleep problems pain memory problems concentration problems activity management, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Pediatric ME/CFS: Fact Sheet for Healthcare Professionals

en EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) in adolescents and
younger children can be difficult to diagnose and manage. This fact sheet
offers information intended for healthcare professionals, including
physicians, nurses, and nurse practitioners. on topics such as helping
patients reduce symptoms, understanding how ME/CFS affects adolescents or
younger children in school, and communicating with schools.

**Managing ME/CFS in Children and Adolescents**

Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) in adolescents and
younger children can be challenging to diagnose and manage. Adolescents and
younger children with ME/CFS can have a wide range of symptoms. Due to the
varying severity and duration of symptoms, periodic reassessment of ME/CFS
symptoms and illness course are imperative. This approach can monitor the
variation of symptoms and also identify other new health problems should they
occur.

**_Help Patients Reduce Symptoms Affecting their Quality of Life_**

The goal of managing ME/CFS in adolescents and younger children is to reduce
symptoms that limit daily activity. Memory and concentration problems are two
commonly reported symptoms of ME/CFS in this population. An adolescent or
younger child with concentration problems often has a hard time in school and
with afterschool activities, such as sports or school clubs. Sleep problems
can contribute to poor school performance or school attendance. Encourage
parents to provide students with tools such as organizers and schedulers that
may be helpful in managing the effects of the illness.

Healthcare providers should use extra caution when prescribing medicines for
children with ME/CFS. Patients with ME/CFS might be more likely to have
adverse reactions to standard doses. Starting medications at the smallest
possible doses and for the shortest possible time should be considered.

**_Understand How ME/CFS Affects a Student 's School Experience_**

ME/CFS can affect a student's school experience in several ways, such as
attendance, participation inside and outside the classroom, completion of
assignments, relationships with peers, and overall school success. Symptoms
can fluctuate day to day and week to week, affecting a young person's ability
to attend school regularly and perform consistently.

In extreme cases of the illness, children may be unable to leave the house
because their symptoms are so severe. This could isolate them from their
friends or peers, as they miss out on opportunities to socialize. For example,
children with ME/CFS say they particularly miss eating lunch with friends and
participating in after-school activities.

Adolescents and younger children with ME/CFS may experience problems with
attention, response speed, information processing speed, and delayed recall of
verbal and visual information. For instance, it may be challenging for
adolescents to take notes and listen to their teacher at the same time.

Understanding the problems experienced by ME/CFS patients is helpful for
clinicians who care for children and adolescents with ME/CFS and for teachers
who teach these students. Clinicians, parents, and educators can work together
to ensure an adolescent or younger child suffering from ME/CFS has access to
educational support resources.

**_Communicate Effectively with Schools_**

ME/CFS is a complex illness, and the severity of the illness can differ from
person to person. Letters from clinicians may provide support to students with
ME/CFS and their parents in finding services to help them at school. When
communicating with schools at the request of a parent/guardian, clinicians may
describe the possible or confirmed diagnosis with particular emphasis on
symptoms that can affect school performance and attendance.

It is important for clinicians to keep the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act (HIPAA), Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA),
and patient confidentiality in mind at all times.

**_Sample Information to Include in Healthcare Provider Letter_**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Document suspected or confirmed diagnosis of ME/CFS and description of symptoms the patient is experiencing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * List support potentially needed for the child and the family in their experience of the illness, including its unpredictable symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Provide examples of how ME/CFS can affect activities of daily life and educational performance: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * This can include a decrease in energy levels, focus, and alertness, which might impact a child's performance at school.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Explain how extra educational support can help the child attain their learning objectives:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * This can include testing accommodations, homework modifications, limiting physical activity, splitting time between school and home tutoring, and permission to have fluids and salty snacks available, if needed.

Print

![Managing ME/CFS in Children and Adolescents—Healthcare Professionals cover
page](/me-cfs/images/me-cfs-children-healthcare-pro-small.jpg)

Managing ME/CFS in Children and Adolescents--Healthcare Professionals

pdf icon[PDF - 2 pages]

Page last reviewed: July 12, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)

home ME/CFS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What is ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Causes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptoms and Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ME/CFS in Childrenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms and Diagnosis of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ME/CFS in Children Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Parents/Guardians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Education Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDCâs ME/CFS Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis and Treatment of ME/CFS Syndrome: A Systematic Review of the Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multi-site Clinical Assessment of CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Wichita Clinical Study Data Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Living with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Andrewâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Annâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lizâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Marleneâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Presentation and Clinical Course of ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prognosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Etiology and Pathophysiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * IOM 2015 Diagnostic Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Proposed Approach to ME/CFS Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Conditions for Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Comorbid Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Factors Complicating the Diagnosis of ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Care of Patients with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treating the Most Disruptive Symptoms First and Preventing Worsening of Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Strategies for Living with ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Monitoring the Use of All Medicines and Supplements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Severely Affected Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding History of Case Definitions and Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disability and ME-CFS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

PDF

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

