https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/healthcare-providers/clinical-care-patients-mecfs/severely-affected-patients.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/healthcare-providers/clinical-care-patients-mecfs/severely-affected-patients.html    
                Description: A subgroup of ME/CFS patients is affected severely and can be house-bound or even bedbound for weeks or longer. Very severely affected patients experience profound weakness, almost constant pain, severe limitations to physical and mental activity, sensory hypersensitivity (light, touch, sound, smell, and certain foods), and hypersensitivity to medications.    
                Keywords: Severe ME/CFS,  house-bound patient,  bed-bound patient,  in-home assistance and care, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Severely Affected Patients

en EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

A subgroup of ME/CFS patients is affected severely and can be house-bound or
even bedbound for weeks or longer. Very severely affected patients experience
profound weakness, almost constant pain, severe limitations to physical and
mental activity, sensory hypersensitivity (light, touch, sound, smell, and
certain foods), and hypersensitivity to medications.

These patients often cannot make office visits, and require in-home assistance
and management plans specifically adjusted to their needs by a coordinated
care team of providers. Caregivers, who provide ongoing management and the
majority of care for patients, are subject to substantial stress and may need
additional support.

The subset of severely ill ME/CFS patients who are bedbound requires special
attention, including in-home visits and phone/online check-ups, and a modified
approach to activity management. Some accommodations for those severely ill
from ME/CFS include recumbent wheelchairs, portable cook surfaces, shower
chairs and bedpans. For example, they can consider sitting instead of standing
when cooking or showering, using a bed-side commode in lieu of walking to the
restroom, and taking frequent breaks during activity. The treatment plan for
these patients usually includes:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Creating a very quiet, darkened environment, as this is often helpful to severely affected patients.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Modifying or limiting physical and mental activity.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Developing a careful medication and/or supplement plan that is kept to a necessary minimum. It is important to discuss risks and benefits of each medication or supplement. As for all patients, potential for adverse drug interactions should be assessed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Providing or referring to counseling to help adjust expectations and deal with feelings of anger, frustration, and despair that can accompany any debilitating illness, including ME/CFS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Referring for physical therapy and other home health services when possible.

A realistic goal with severely ill patients is focusing on reducing stiffness
and maintaining joint range of motion by passive range-of-motion exercises and
gentle stretching (if touch can be tolerated). Hand stretches and picking up
and grasping small objects may be all that can be managed by some patients.
Help with regular repositioning may be needed to prevent pressure sores in
patients unable to turn over in bed. Movement can help maintain range of
motion, prevent contractures, and decrease stiffness. Osteoporosis risk can
also be a long-term concern. For these and other clinical reasons, it is
important to note that complete bed rest, while sometimes necessary, should be
reserved for patients with the most severe symptoms.

**Disclaimer:** The content of this ME/CFS website is for informational
purposes only and does not represent a federal guideline or recommendation for
the treatment of ME/CFS. The information provided on this website is not
intended to be a substitute for the medical judgment of the healthcare
provider and does not indicate an exclusive course of action or treatment.

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinical Care of Patients with ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treating the Most Disruptive Symptoms First and Preventing Worsening of Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Additional Strategies for Living with ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Monitoring the Use of All Medicines and Supplements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Presentation and Clinical Course of ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diagnosis

Page last reviewed: November 19, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)

home ME/CFS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What is ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Causes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptoms and Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ME/CFS in Childrenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms and Diagnosis of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ME/CFS in Children Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Parents/Guardians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Education Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDCâs ME/CFS Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis and Treatment of ME/CFS Syndrome: A Systematic Review of the Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multi-site Clinical Assessment of CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Wichita Clinical Study Data Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Living with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Andrewâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Annâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lizâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Marleneâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Presentation and Clinical Course of ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prognosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Etiology and Pathophysiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * IOM 2015 Diagnostic Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Proposed Approach to ME/CFS Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Conditions for Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Comorbid Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Factors Complicating the Diagnosis of ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Care of Patients with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treating the Most Disruptive Symptoms First and Preventing Worsening of Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Strategies for Living with ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Monitoring the Use of All Medicines and Supplements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Severely Affected Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding History of Case Definitions and Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disability and ME-CFS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

