https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/patient-stories/stories-marlene.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/patient-stories/stories-marlene.html    
                Description: Story from ME/CFS patient: Marlene.    
                Keywords: chronic fatigue syndrome myalgic encephalomyelitis fatigue post-exertional malaise orthostatic intolerance dizziness lightheadedness sleep problems pain memory problems concentration problems activity management, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Marleneâs Story

en EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

![young woman laying down](/me-cfs/images/young-women-500-small.jpg)

It all happened around my 16th birthday. I started to throw-up, had a sore
throat, and was very tired. My pediatrician did a test to check for
mononucleosis (also known as mono) but it came back negative. Next I went to
an ear, nose, and throat doctor for a second opinion and they did more blood
work and eventually diagnosed me with mono.

Before this all started, I was an avid softball player. In fact, I had played
since elementary school and was on the All-Star team in little league and
pitcher for my high school team. After I got mono, I had to stop for a while.

This was the beginning of my junior year of high school, and initially I
planned to miss school for 3 to 4 weeks per the doctor's orders. Despite still
not feeling well, I tried to go back, but it just didn't work. I experienced
severe fatigue, POTS (postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome)* and I
couldn't concentrate. Pretty soon, I had to drop classes as I could not meet
deadlines and there were too many assignments. The assignments were not
necessarily difficult, it was just a matter of them piling up due to missing
class and not feeling well enough to concentrate on them for hours at a time.
Also, I would often have to spend time teaching myself the material before I
could even start some of the assignments, so the time commitment was huge. The
more the assignments piled up, the longer I would have to concentrate at a
given time to catch up on them. It became more and more overwhelming the more
days I was out of school.

We got a homebound tutor to help me out. It was tough for me as a teenager
because I felt like most of my friends did not understand what I was going
through. I often had to cancel going out at the last second, and I felt very
bad about that.

After many months had passed with no relief, I was referred to a pediatric
infectious disease doctor, but the doctor didn't seem to be too concerned.
Over time I started to do my own research and the next time I went to my
pediatrician, I asked about ME/CFS. He was reluctant to give me this diagnosis
but eventually did.

My senior year, I started to train for softball again. I had a personal
pitching coach helping me and I managed to play a couple of games. However, I
had a major "crash" - my body felt so heavy and I just had zero energy. At
this point I had to quit softball for good.  I came to realize that I could do
what I could do and couldn't do what I couldn't do.

Eventually, I travelled out of state to see an ME/CFS specialist. When I found
this doctor, I felt like I was finally supported. I also found an adult
infectious disease doctor locally who was willing to work with the ME/CFS
specialist to come up with the best treatment plan for me. I also learned how
to budget my energy, meaning that I need to listen to my body and not over do
things. I think having a doctor who believed in me made a huge difference.

The good news for me is that I was able to graduate from high school and
attend college. In fact, it was easier to attend college than high school
because the college class schedule allowed for more flexibility. I could take
breaks between classes and go at my own pace. When you get ME/CFS as a
teenager, you don't have much control over your life. School and other
activities are not so flexible. As an adult I could control things more.

I would like people to know that everyone with ME/CFS is different. I cannot
stress this enough. Because ME/CFS symptoms vary by person (we do not all have
the same ones), what may work for one person, may not work for another person.
You need to listen to your body and not feel bad about the limitations. But,
you also have to try and have a life.

*POTS, postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome, is a change in the regulation of heart rate when going from lying down to standing. It causes light-headedness or dizziness and an abnormal increase in heart rate but the heart is normal. It is common for patients with these symptoms of ME/CFS who have been diagnosed with POTS to use this term.

For more information, see Etiology and Pathophysiology.

_Disclaimer: The opinions and conclusions on this web page are those of the
patients and other contributors, and do not necessarily represent the official
position of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The names of
some contributors have been changed to protect their privacy.  _

Page last reviewed: April 27, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)

home ME/CFS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What is ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Causes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptoms and Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ME/CFS in Childrenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms and Diagnosis of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ME/CFS in Children Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Parents/Guardians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Education Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDCâs ME/CFS Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis and Treatment of ME/CFS Syndrome: A Systematic Review of the Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multi-site Clinical Assessment of CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Wichita Clinical Study Data Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Living with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Andrewâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Annâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lizâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Marleneâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Presentation and Clinical Course of ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prognosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Etiology and Pathophysiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * IOM 2015 Diagnostic Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Proposed Approach to ME/CFS Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Conditions for Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Comorbid Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Factors Complicating the Diagnosis of ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Care of Patients with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treating the Most Disruptive Symptoms First and Preventing Worsening of Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Strategies for Living with ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Monitoring the Use of All Medicines and Supplements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Severely Affected Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding History of Case Definitions and Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disability and ME-CFS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

