https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/about/possible-causes.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/about/possible-causes.html    
                Description: Scientists have not yet identified what causes myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS). It is possible that ME/CFS has more than one cause, meaning that patients with ME/CFS could have illness resulting from different causes     
                Keywords: chronic fatigue syndrome myalgic encephalomyelitis fatigue post-exertional malaise orthostatic intolerance dizziness lightheadedness sleep problems pain memory problems concentration problems activity management, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Possible Causes

en EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

Scientists have not yet identified what causes myalgic
encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS). It is possible that
ME/CFS has more than one cause, meaning that patients with ME/CFS could have
illness resulting from different causes (see below). In addition, it is
possible that two or more triggers might work together to cause the illness.

### Some of the areas that are being studied as possible causes of ME/CFS are:

Open All Close All

Infections

People with ME/CFS often have their illness begin in a way that reminds them
of getting the flu. This has made researchers suspect an infection may trigger
ME/CFS. In addition, about one in ten people who become infected with Epstein-
Barr virus, Ross River virus, or _Coxiella burnetti_ will develop a set of
symptoms that meet the criteria for ME/CFS. People with these infections who
had severe symptoms are more likely than those with mild symptoms to later
develop ME/CFS symptoms. But not all people with ME/CFS have had these
infections.

Other infections that have been studied in connection with ME/CFS are human
herpesvirus 6, enterovirus, rubella, _Candida albicans_, bornaviruses,
mycoplasma, and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). However, these infections
have not been found to cause ME/CFS.

Immune System Changes

It is possible that ME/CFS is caused by a change in the person's immune system
and the way it responds to infection or stress. ME/CFS shares some features of
autoimmune illnesses (diseases in which the immune system attacks healthy
tissues in own body, like in rheumatoid arthritis). For example, both ME/CFS
and most autoimmune diseases are more common in women and both are
characterized by increased inflammation. However, other signs of autoimmune
disease, like tissue damage, are not found in patients with ME/CFS.

Scientists think that the immune system might be contributing to ME/CFS in
other ways, including:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * **Chronic production of cytokines** (cytokines are proteins that are produced by the immune system and regulate behavior of other cells). Higher levels of cytokines for a prolonged period can lead to changes in the body's ability to respond to stress and might lead to the development of health conditions, including ME/CFS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * **Low-functioning natural killer (NK) cells**. NK cells are cells of the immune system that help the body fight infections. Many patients with ME/CFS have NK cells with lower functional ability to fight infections. Studies have found that the poorer the function of NK cells in ME/CFS patients, the worse the severity of the illness. NK cell function tests are hard to do and their results are not reliable outside of research studies. Because of this problem, NK cell function testing is not yet useful for healthcare providers. Also, low NK cell function can occur in other illnesses and thus cannot be used to diagnose ME/CFS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * **Differences in markers of T-cell activation.** T-cells are cells of the immune system that help activate and suppress immune responses to infections. If they become too active or not active enough, the immune response does not work as it should. However, not all patients with ME/CFS appear to have these differences in markers of T-cell activation.

Stress Affecting Body Chemistry

Physical or emotional stress affects the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis
(HPA axis). The HPA axis is a complex network that controls our body's
reaction to stress and regulates a lot of body processes such as the immune
response, digestion, energy usage, and mood. This occurs through connections
between two glands of the nervous system (hypothalamus and pituitary) and
adrenal glands (small organs that reside on top of the kidneys). The glands
release various hormones, like corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH),
cortisol, and others. When these hormones get out of balance, many body
systems and functions, like the immune response, can be negatively affected.
Cortisol, also called "the stress hormone," helps to lower inflammation and
calm down the immune system. Low levels of cortisol thus may lead to an
increase in inflammation and chronic activation of the immune system.

Patients with ME/CFS commonly report physical or emotional stress before they
become ill. Some patients with ME/CFS have lower levels of cortisol than
healthy people, but their cortisol levels are still within the normal range.
Therefore, doctors cannot use cortisol levels to diagnose or treat ME/CFS.

Changes in Energy Production

Scientists found differences between people with ME/CFS and healthy people in
the way cells in their bodies get their energy. However, more studies are
needed to figure out how these findings may be contributing to the illness.

Possible Genetic Link

Members of the same family sometimes have ME/CFS. Studies done in twins and
families suggest that both genes and environment might play a role in ME/CFS.
Scientists have not yet found the exact genes or other factors from the
environment that may be responsible. More research is needed.

Related Links

Symptoms and Diagnosis

Page last reviewed: July 12, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)

home ME/CFS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What is ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Causes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptoms and Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ME/CFS in Childrenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms and Diagnosis of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ME/CFS in Children Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Parents/Guardians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Education Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDCâs ME/CFS Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis and Treatment of ME/CFS Syndrome: A Systematic Review of the Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multi-site Clinical Assessment of CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Wichita Clinical Study Data Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Living with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Andrewâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Annâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lizâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Marleneâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Presentation and Clinical Course of ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prognosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Etiology and Pathophysiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * IOM 2015 Diagnostic Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Proposed Approach to ME/CFS Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Conditions for Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Comorbid Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Factors Complicating the Diagnosis of ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Care of Patients with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treating the Most Disruptive Symptoms First and Preventing Worsening of Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Strategies for Living with ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Monitoring the Use of All Medicines and Supplements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Severely Affected Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding History of Case Definitions and Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disability and ME-CFS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

