https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/me-cfs-children/children-symptoms-diagnosis.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/me-cfs-children/children-symptoms-diagnosis.html    
                Description: None    
                Keywords: chronic fatigue syndrome myalgic encephalomyelitis fatigue post-exertional malaise orthostatic intolerance dizziness lightheadedness sleep problems pain memory problems concentration problems activity management, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Symptoms and Diagnosis of ME/CFS in Children

en EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

Children and adolescents with ME/CFS mostly have the same **symptoms as
adults**. Some differences are:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children, especially adolescents, with ME/CFS have orthostatic intolerance (dizziness and lightheadedness and other symptoms that are triggered when standing up and sometimes also sitting upright) more often than adults. It is often the most unbearable symptom and may make other symptoms of ME/CFS worse.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * **Sleep problems** in young children may show up as a lack of their usual energy. In adolescents with ME/CFS, sleep problems may be hard to detect, as sleep cycles change during puberty. Many adolescents begin to stay up late and often have trouble waking up early. The demands of classes, homework, after-school jobs, and social activities also affect sleep. Common sleep complaints in children and adolescents with ME/CFS include: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Difficulty falling or staying asleep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Daytime sleepiness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Intense and vivid dreaming
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Unlike adults with ME/CFS, children and adolescents with ME/CFS do not usually have muscle and joint pain. Yet **headaches and stomach pain** may be more common in this age group. Younger children may not be able to describe the pain well.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * In children, particularly in adolescents, ME/CFS is more likely to start after an acute illness, like the flu or mononucleosis. Sometimes, ME/CFS in children might begin gradually.

## Diagnosis of ME/CFS in Children

As in adults, symptoms of ME/CFS in children and adolescents may appear
similar to many other illnesses, and there is no test to confirm ME/CFS. This
makes ME/CFS difficult to diagnose. The illness can be unpredictable. Symptoms
may come and go, or there may be changes in how bad they are over time.

A diagnosis of ME/CFS requires at least 6 months of illness. However, children
and other patients should be seen by doctors and get support as soon as they
become ill. In other words, a child with some or all of the symptoms of ME/CFS
should not wait for months to see a doctor. This 6-month period is used to
complete laboratory tests and other activities, including follow-up
appointments, to check for other illnesses that have symptoms similar to
ME/CFS. The 6-month period also allows time for improvement for children with
illnesses that have symptoms like ME/CFS, but that do not usually last as long
as ME/CFS. It is also important that management of symptoms begins before 6
months have passed, and that support and accommodations for children in school
are considered and implemented during this time.

To diagnose ME/CFS, the child's doctor may undertake the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Ask about child's and family's medical history, including a review of any medications and recent illnesses
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Do a thorough physical and mental status examination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Order blood, urine or other tests

To get a better idea about the child's illness, the doctor may ask many
questions. Depending on the age of the child, the questions might be asked of
the patient, parent/guardian, or both (together or independently). Questions
might include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What is the child able to do now? How does it compare to what the child was able to do before?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * How long has the child been ill?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Does the child feel better after sleeping or resting?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What makes the child feel worse? What helps the child feel better?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What symptoms keep the child from doing what he/she needs or wants to do?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Does the child ever feel dizzy or lightheaded? Has the child been falling more often than before?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Does the child seem to have trouble remembering or focusing on tasks?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What happens when the child tries to do activities that used to be normal?

Parents/guardians and patients may want to keep a journal for their ill child.
This could help patients and families remember important details during their
healthcare visit. Keeping track of child's activities and what leads to
worsening of child's symptoms can help identify the effects of the illness on
daily activities.

Doctors might refer patients to see a specialist, like a neurologist,
rheumatologist, or a sleep specialist, to check for other conditions that can
cause similar symptoms. These specialists might find other conditions that
could be treated. Patients can have other conditions and still have ME/CFS.
However, getting treatment for other conditions might help patients with
ME/CFS feel better.

A number of factors can make diagnosing ME/CFS more difficult. For example:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * There is no laboratory test to confirm ME/CFS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fatigue and other symptoms of ME/CFS are common to many illnesses.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The illness is unpredictable and symptoms may come and go.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The type, number, and severity of ME/CFS symptoms vary from person to person.

When diagnosing ME/CFS in children and adolescents, it is useful to remember
that:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Children and adolescents cannot always accurately describe their symptoms or how they feel.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Parents may describe their child's symptoms differently from how the child describes his/her symptoms.

Children with ME/CFS may miss school, which may be mistaken for school phobia.
But unlike those with school phobia, children with ME/CFS are still ill and
inactive on weekends and holidays. They may not be able to do their hobbies
and take part in social activities as they did before the illness. They also
may have a problem completing school assignments within the usual time. This
might be a result of problems with thinking, learning, and memory caused by
the illness.

Disclaimer: This website is for informational purposes only. The information
provided on this website is not intended to be a substitute for professional
medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment.

Page last reviewed: July 12, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)

home ME/CFS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What is ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Causes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptoms and Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ME/CFS in Childrenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms and Diagnosis of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ME/CFS in Children Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Parents/Guardians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Education Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDCâs ME/CFS Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis and Treatment of ME/CFS Syndrome: A Systematic Review of the Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multi-site Clinical Assessment of CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Wichita Clinical Study Data Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Living with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Andrewâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Annâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lizâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Marleneâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Presentation and Clinical Course of ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prognosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Etiology and Pathophysiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * IOM 2015 Diagnostic Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Proposed Approach to ME/CFS Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Conditions for Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Comorbid Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Factors Complicating the Diagnosis of ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Care of Patients with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treating the Most Disruptive Symptoms First and Preventing Worsening of Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Strategies for Living with ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Monitoring the Use of All Medicines and Supplements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Severely Affected Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding History of Case Definitions and Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disability and ME-CFS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

