https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/healthcare-providers/case-definitions-criteria.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/healthcare-providers/case-definitions-criteria.html    
                Description: Multiple case definitions may be required for different applications and can co-exist if there is a good understanding of how they are being used.    
                Keywords: ME/CFs case definitions,  ME/CFS diagnostic criteria,  historical perspective, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Understanding History of Case Definitions and Criteria

en EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

On This Page

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 1994 International Research Case Definition
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2003 Canadian Consensus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * 2011 ME International Consensus

For healthcare providers, diagnosing ME/CFS can be complicated by a number of
factors:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. There is no lab test or biomarker for ME/CFS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. Fatigue and other symptoms of ME/CFS are common to many illnesses.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. For some patients with ME/CFS, it may not be obvious to healthcare providers that they are ill. Patients are most likely to come to clinic on the days that they are feeling their best.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4. The illness has a pattern of remission and relapse, which can be unpredictable.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5. Symptoms vary from person to person in frequency and severity. Those most severely affected by ME/CFS may not seek care because they are too ill to come to a clinic. Others may worsen over time and become unable to visit their healthcare provider.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6. The complexity and duration of the illness or prior healthcare experiences can contribute to communication difficulties between patients and healthcare providers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7. There is a lack of adequate education about and acceptance of the illness in the medical community.

These factors have contributed to a low diagnosis rate and continued stigma
and suffering caused by this illness.

It is not uncommon to have more than one case definition that is used to
diagnose or study an illness. From a clinical perspective, case definitions
are used to make the appropriate diagnosis and guide therapy and management.
From a research perspective, case definitions are used to identify the
appropriate study population. Multiple case definitions may be required for
different applications and can co-exist if there is a good understanding of
how they are being used.

The key features of the three definitions most often used in the United States
prior to the publication of the IOM report in 2015 are summarized below. All
previously used case definitions for chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) or myalgic
encephalomyelitis (ME)/CFS have been based on expert opinion, all are symptom-
based, and most were developed for research. There is no consensus on whether
CFS and ME are synonyms, different spectrums of the same illness, or distinct
conditions. There are many similarities between these definitions, and most
agree that there is significant overlap in the patients meeting these
criteria. The major differences are whether post-exertional malaise (PEM) is
required and in the number of required symptoms.

### Summary of Key Features of the Case Definitions for Chronic Fatigue
Syndrome/Myalgic Encephalomyelitis.

1994 International Research Case Definition

 **Overview of Inclusions**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fatigue + 4 out of 8 case-defining symptoms:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * PEM lasting more than 24 hours
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Unrefreshing sleep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Significant impairment of short-term memory or concentration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Muscle pain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Pain in the joints without swelling or redness
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Headaches of a new type, pattern, or severity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Tender lymph nodes in the neck or armpit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * A sore throat that is frequent or recurring

**Duration**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ≥ 6 months (clinical evaluation starts at one month - prolonged fatigue)

**Fatigue**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ≥ 6 months new onset severe persistent or relapsing fatigue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Unexplained after clinical evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Not explained by ongoing exertion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Not substantially relieved by rest
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Results in substantial reduction in occupational, educational, social, or personal activities

**Post-exertional malaise**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Not required but one of the 8 case defining symptoms

**Minimum number of symptoms** --5

**Exclusions**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Active medical condition that explains chronic fatigue - untreated hypothyroidism, sleep apnea, narcolepsy, medication side effects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Previous diagnosis not unequivocally resolved - chronic hepatitis, malignancy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Past or current major depressive disorder with psychotic or melancholic features, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, delusional disorders, dementias, anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Alcohol or substance abuse within 2 years of illness onset or anytime after
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Severe obesity (BMI > 45)

**Accepted co-morbidities**

Fibromyalgia, anxiety disorders, somatoform disorders, nonpsychotic or
melancholic depression, neurasthenia, multiple chemical sensitivity disorder,
treated Lyme disease or syphilis before chronic sequelae, isolated unexplained
lab or physical abnormality insufficient to suggest exclusionary diagnosis

**Reference**  
Fukuda K, Straus SE, Hickie I, et al. The chronic fatigue syndrome: A
comprehensive approach to its definition and study.  _Ann Intern Med_
121:953-959, 1994.

Top of Page

2003 Canadian Consensus

 **Overview of Inclusions**

Fatigue, post-exertional malaise ±fatigue, sleep dysfunction, and pain; have 2
or more neurological/cognitive manifestations and 1or more from 2 categories
of autonomic, neuroendocrine and immune manifestations

**Duration**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ≥ 6 months (preliminary diagnosis can be earlier)

**Fatigue**

Significant new onset persistent or recurrent physical or mental fatigue

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Unexplained after clinical evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Substantially reduces activity level

**Post-exertional malaise**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Required

**Minimum number of symptoms** --8

**Exclusions**

Active disease processes that explain symptoms, specifies:

Addison's disease, Cushing syndrome, hypo- or hyperthyroidism, iron
deficiency, anemia, iron overload, diabetes mellitus, cancer, sleep apnea,
rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, polymyositis, polymyalgia rheumatic, AIDS,
multiple sclerosis, tuberculosis, chronic hepatitis, Lyme disease, primary
psychiatric disorders, substance abuse

**Accepted co-morbidities**

Fibromyalgia, myofascial pain, temporomandibular joint syndrome, irritable
bowel syndrome, interstitial cystitis, irritable bladder syndrome, Raynaud's
phenomenon, mitral valve prolapse, migraines, allergies, multiple chemical
sensitivities, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, sicca syndrome, depression

**Reference**  
Carruthers BM, Jain AK, DeMeirleir KL, et al. Myalgic
encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome: Clinical working case definition,
diagnostic and treatment protocols.  _J Chronic Fatigue Syndrome_ 11:7-115,
2003.

Top of Page

2011 ME International Consensus

 **Overview of Inclusions**

Post-exertional neuroimmune exhaustion, ≥1 symptom from 3 neurological
impairment categories, ≥ 1 symptom from the
immune/gastrointestinal/genitourinary impairment categories, ≥ 1 symptom from
energy metabolism/transport impairments

**Duration**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Not included

**Fatigue**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Not included

**Post-exertional malaise**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Required, renamed post-exertional neuroimmune exhaustion (PENE)

**Minimum number of symptoms** --8

**Exclusions**

Alternative explanatory diagnoses (untreated), primary psychiatric disorders,
somatoform disorder, substance abuse

**Accepted co-morbidities**

Fibromyalgia, myofascial pain, temporomandibular joint syndrome, irritable
bowel syndrome, interstitial cystitis, Raynaud's phenomenon, mitral valve
prolapse, migraines, allergies, multiple chemical sensitivities, Hashimoto's
thyroiditis, sicca syndrome, reactive depression

**Reference**  
Carruthers BM, van de Sande MI, DeMeirleir KL, et al. Myalgic
encephalomyelitis: International consensus criteria. _J Intern Med_
270:327-338, 2011.

Top of Page

Page last reviewed: November 19, 2019

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)

home ME/CFS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What is ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Causes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptoms and Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ME/CFS in Childrenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms and Diagnosis of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ME/CFS in Children Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Parents/Guardians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Education Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDCâs ME/CFS Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis and Treatment of ME/CFS Syndrome: A Systematic Review of the Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multi-site Clinical Assessment of CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Wichita Clinical Study Data Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Living with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Andrewâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Annâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lizâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Marleneâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Presentation and Clinical Course of ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prognosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Etiology and Pathophysiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * IOM 2015 Diagnostic Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Proposed Approach to ME/CFS Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Conditions for Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Comorbid Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Factors Complicating the Diagnosis of ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Care of Patients with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treating the Most Disruptive Symptoms First and Preventing Worsening of Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Strategies for Living with ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Monitoring the Use of All Medicines and Supplements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Severely Affected Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding History of Case Definitions and Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disability and ME-CFS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

