https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/healthcare-providers/diagnosis/evaluation.htmlLink: https://www.cdc.gov/me-cfs/healthcare-providers/diagnosis/evaluation.html    
                Description: Evaluation of ME/CFS requires multiple stages based on patient symptoms and complete history, physical exam findings, review of any recent laboratory test results, and clinical judgment. Healthcare providers typically determine the sequence and prioritization of laboratory testing based on individual patientsâ presentations.    
                Keywords: ME/CFS diagnosis,  patient evaluation,  laboratory tests, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS)    
                            

Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to
A-Z link

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving
Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC
twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People

Search ____

Ã

Submit __

For a full list of topics: A-Z Index

Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome

Section Navigation

CDC Home

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate

# Evaluation

en EspaÃ±ol

Minus

Related Pages

Evaluation of ME/CFS requires multiple stages based on patient symptoms and
complete history, physical exam findings, review of any recent laboratory test
results, and clinical judgment. As for any condition, healthcare providers
typically determine the sequence and prioritization of laboratory testing
based on individual patients' presentations. While not all of the tests listed
below may be needed initially or at the same time, the tests below are
performed routinely for patient evaluations by healthcare providers with
clinical expertise in ME/CFS, largely with the goal of identifying other
illnesses:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Complete blood count with differential
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Electrolytes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Fasting glucose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Renal function: creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), glomerular filtration rate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Calcium
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Phosphate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Liver function: bilirubin, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT), total protein, albumin/globulin ratio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * C-reactive protein
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Thyroid Function: thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), free thyroxine (free T4)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Iron studies to assess for both iron overload and deficiency: serum iron, transferrin saturation, ferritin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Celiac disease screening laboratory tests
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Urinalysis

Despite being substantially debilitated, most people with ME/CFS have routine
laboratory test results that are within normal ranges. Further testing may be
indicated to confirm a diagnosis for illness other than ME/CFS if suggested by
an individual patient's history and/or physical findings. For example, if
autoimmune disease is suspected, the healthcare provider may order additional
tests such as antinuclear antibodies. However, healthcare providers should be
cautious of extensive testing in the absence of clinical suspicion because of
the risk of false positive tests.

If abnormal laboratory findings are present, further evaluation is warranted.
For example, if an anemia is identified, further studies are generally
indicated to characterize and treat the anemia. These studies might include
tests for deficiencies in B12 and folate. Anemia can also be a presenting
symptom of celiac disease. (Note: Some healthcare providers with expertise in
the diagnosis and management of ME/CFS include vitamin level studies,
including B12, folate, and vitamin D, in their initial testing. For patients
with cognitive impairment, assessment of B12 and folate can help identify
underlying conditions.)

Additional tests such as imaging and physiological assessments may be needed
to diagnose underlying illnesses. These tests might include:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Specific cultures or serological tests if an ongoing or recent infection is suspected.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * MRI or other neuroimaging procedures to evaluate abnormal findings on the neurological examination and to assess for diseases such as multiple sclerosis.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Physiological testing such as sleep studies, exercise testing (including VO2max), or tilt table testing to address specific questions, often in consultation with a specialist.

Be aware that a patient can have ME/CFS and a co-existing condition that
causes fatigue or other ME/CFS symptoms (e.g., blood pressure abnormalities),
and these co-existing conditions should be treated appropriately.

Extensive testing and frequent healthcare provider's visits may exacerbate the
symptoms of patients with ME/CFS, so when follow-up visits are needed, they
need to be scheduled thoughtfully. Some patients with ME/CFS may not look ill
during office visits, while those with more severe symptoms might not always
be able to keep all of their appointments.

### Assessing the Impact of Illness on Cognition

Tests can be useful to assess if and how patients' cognitive skills, such as
concentration, memory, and organization, are or become impacted by illness.
This additional testing can also be useful in identifying particular areas in
which specific tools or strategies might help. Assessments and strategic
interventions may be particularly helpful to children and adolescents with
ME/CFS. Academic attendance and performance are important for these patients,
and their specific educational needs should be addressed.

**Disclaimer:** The content of this ME/CFS website is for informational
purposes only and does not represent a federal guideline or recommendation for
the treatment of ME/CFS. The information provided on this website is not
intended to be a substitute for the medical judgment of the healthcare
provider and does not indicate an exclusive course of action or treatment.

Related Links

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * IOM 2015 Diagnostic Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Proposed Approach to ME/CFS Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Other Conditions for Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Comorbid Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Presentation and Clinical Course of ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Clinical Care of Patients with ME/CFS

Page last reviewed: July 12, 2018

Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center
for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases (NCEZID), Division of High-
Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)

home ME/CFS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * What is ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Possible Causes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Symptoms and Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Treatment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * ME/CFS in Childrenplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Symptoms and Diagnosis of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Treatment of ME/CFS in Children
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * ME/CFS in Children Fact Sheetsplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Healthcare Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Parents/Guardians
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Fact Sheet for Education Professionals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDCâs ME/CFS Programplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosis and Treatment of ME/CFS Syndrome: A Systematic Review of the Evidence
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Multi-site Clinical Assessment of CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Wichita Clinical Study Data Access
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Living with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Andrewâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Annâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Lizâs Story 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Marleneâs Story
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Information for Healthcare Providersplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Presentation and Clinical Course of ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Prognosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Epidemiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Etiology and Pathophysiology
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Diagnosisplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * IOM 2015 Diagnostic Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Proposed Approach to ME/CFS Diagnosis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Other Conditions for Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Comorbid Conditions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Evaluation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Factors Complicating the Diagnosis of ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Clinical Care of Patients with ME/CFSplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Treating the Most Disruptive Symptoms First and Preventing Worsening of Symptoms
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Additional Strategies for Living with ME/CFS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Monitoring the Use of All Medicines and Supplements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * Severely Affected Patients
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Understanding History of Case Definitions and Criteria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Resourcesplus icon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        * Disability and ME-CFS

**HAVE QUESTIONS?**

Visit CDC-INFO

Call 800-232-4636

Email CDC-INFO

Open 24/7

**CDC INFORMATION**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * About CDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Jobs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Policies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * File Viewers & Players

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Privacy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * FOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * No Fear Act
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * OIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Nondiscrimination
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Accessibility

**CONNECT WITH CDC**  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Youtube
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Instagram
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Syndicate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC TV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * RSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

U.S. Department of Health & Human Services

USA.gov

CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Facebook
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Twitter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * LinkedIn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Email

![Web Analytics](https://cdc.112.2o7.net/b/ss/cdcgov/1/H.21--NS/01/H.21--NS/0)

#### Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy

Close

**Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website.**

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      * CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website.
For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website
Disclaimers.

Cancel Continue

  *[ April 1 at 2:32 PM]: Wednesday, April 1, 2020 at 2:32 PM
  *[4 hrs]: Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 2:56 PM

